Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/vIfyg/a-simple-one-variable-dataset

English
Hello, everyone. In this video,
we're going to actually use
code to execute KMeans clustering.
As you can see I already have Jupyter opened up.
We will use the Cluster 1 variable example CSV file,
so I hope you have downloaded it to
the directory for this week in the class.
If you don't have Jupyter opened please
pause the recording and do so and once you come back,
I want you to launch a new Jupyter notebook.
Let's go ahead and rename this notebook to
Week 08 kmeans 1 for one variable.
I'll put in the header information, CMPINF-2100,
Week 08, KMeans with 1 variable.
You will almost never see
KMeans actually applied with one variable,
this is to just demonstrate what's going on,
it's showing you how to execute
the task demonstrated in
the presentation all the slides available on Canvas.
Let's import the modules.
You need the big four,
import NumPy as np,
import Pandas as pd,
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt,
and import seaborne as sns.
Next, you need to read in the data,
I will sign the data to the df object, pd read CSV.
Cluster 1 variable example, CSV.
There are two columns with
15 rows and because it's so small,
we can just show the whole dataset.
There's a variable X,
this is the numeric value.
True group is the actual grouping
that generated each of the observations.
The way this example is created
is that there are three Gaussians,
one centered at -2,
another centered at 0,
and a third centered at +2.
Each of these three Gaussians
generated five observations and
our goal is to identify the three groups in the dataset.
Because we know the original groupings,
we will be able to compare
the cluster analysis results to the known answers,
this will help us make sure
things are working as we anticipate.
Now, let's visualize the observations
using a specialized scatter plot.
This scatter plot is discussed in
detail in CMPINF 2130.
For now, we will just use it but it's
called the strip plot.
It's associated with categorical variables.
So sns.catplot = df,
x = the x column,
and now I will color by the true group,
kind = strip and then you
must please set jitter = False,
J-I-T-T-E-R. Again, we discussed what this is in
more detail in the visualization class
but for now I just want to use it.
Remember I said there were three groupings,
a group centered at -2,
a group centered at 0 and a group centered at +2.
We can see the three groupings here but let's
pretend we do not know the groupings.
Can we cluster the observations just based on
their values or the sns.catplot data = df,
x = x,
kind = strip, jitter = False.
We are not coloring by the true groupings,
you are just provided
these observations and you want to be able
to separate them into three clusters.
That's what KMeans is trying to do.
But before we can run KMeans,
we need to organize the data appropriate.
The function we will use once
NumPy arrays and not Panda's dataframes.
We need to convert our data frame into a 2D array,
the data frame needs to be a 2D array.
Let's do that, df,
I'm going to select the X column,
but now I will convert it to NumPy.
However, two NumPy makes a 1D array.
When I convert to NumPy,
I will then reshape to give me
all rows and definitely one column.
You might be asking why are we specifying one column?
Well, let's assign the result to a new object X,
df.x to NumPy reshape
as many rows as needed for one column.
The X object has two dimensions,
its shape is 15 rows and one column.
The number of columns are the number
of variables we will use when clustering.
The number of rows are the number of observations or
values that we will use to separate the data.
We need to have a column,
even if we have a single data point.