Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/ng9dn/diverging-color-palettes-and-integrating-multiple-variables

English
Each of these start with like a dark purple black.
Go to a light yellow, bright yellow color.
It's sequential.
The kind of shade of the dark to yep,
to bright is what's different between magma inferno and plasma.
Sequential color palettes are useful when
you are distinguishing low to medium to high values,
but you can also distinguish being away from the midpoint.
That's where diverging color palettes are best.
We have already used a diverging color palette when
we've created the correlation plot.
But even if you're not using a correlation plot,
a diverging color palette, like ice fire, is useful when
you really want to just distinguish how far away from the midpoint you are.
Ice fire the midpoint is dark.
Below the midpoint is blue.
Above the midpoint is red.
I like the cool warm diverging color palette.
As I mentioned with the correlation plot discussions,
the midpoint for cool warm is a gray.
Below the midpoint is blue, above the midpoint is red.
So diverging means there are two different color scales.
In our case here, blues and reds, the middle is where they meet.
As we move away from that midpoint, we become more and
more or darker and darker of one color.
So you're again contrasting blue and red for low versus high.
Again, you use diverging when you want to show what's happening away from
a center or midpoint.
There are more diverging color palettes, but this is all I'll show for now.
And as a reminder, you can always include
a categorical variable as facets.
Thus, you can use 4 variables,
3 of which are numerically and 1 being categorical.
Sns.relplot data = penguins,
x = flipper_length_mm,
y = bill_depth_mm, q = body_mass_g.
Set the column facets to be species and
let's stick with the diverging color palette here just to use it.
Let me copy this code.
A second categorical variable
can be associated with row facets.
This gives 5 variables being displayed within the single scatter plot.
So columns are species, but row, let's associate that with island.
Or let's associate row with the sex of of the penguin.
The facet label or facet title is telling us the values,
the combinations of the two categoricals
that define the column versus the row facet.
Again, we are showing 5 variables here on one graphic.
In truth, we could even show 6
variables if we include a third
categorical as the marker shape.
Seaborne denotes the shape as the style.
If we are associating the shape with
a column in the data frame.
So let's use row for the island and
the style for the sex of the penguin.
We now have 6 variables on display.
This is a very busy graphic.
Would you necessarily want to show 6 variables within a single scatter plot?
Maybe not, but I just want to demonstrate how the simple scatterplot is
actually capable of handling a very large number of variables.
Six variables, all within one figure.
You have to think carefully, though, if this is the right thing to do.