Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/KM7jl/exploring-the-sonar-dataset

English
We can also create the conditional KDE,
where we color by the object column.
Sns displot data equals sonar_lf.
Again, x equals value, column equals variable.
We will continue to wrap 10 columns per row,
but now kind is KDE.
The hue will be X60, common_norm is false.
Now let's make sure that we are not
sharing the y and the x axes across the facets.
Again, it's very important to set
common_norm to falls to remove the sample size effect.
I haven't looked in depth in this video
how to count the number of rows per category of X60,
but you know how to do that with
value counts and visualize it with bar charts.
Again, the colors are corresponding
to different conditional distributions
of each numeric column for the two categories of X60.
Let me copy this.
Well, actually, no, I'm not going to copy it.
We can also use violins to directly
compare the conditional distributional shapes,
the conditional, sns catplot data equals sonar_lf.
This time, x will be X60,
y is the value.
The column is the variable,
and we will wrap again 10 columns
per row, kind equals violin.
Because it's catplot there's
an actual argument for share y,
so I can just use it directly.
Again, 60 facets will be created,
one facet per column in the original wide format dataset.
This allows you to examine how
the conditional distributions are
different for each variable.
Let me copy the code here.
Because again, we can also consider
the point plot to examine conditional means.
Now, you will examine if the average is different
for each variable grouped by the object column.
Again, separation between the vertical lines,
the 95% confidence intervals,
how you know that the averages are different.
But there is something unique about this dataset.
To see it, let's use wide format seaborn plot.
So seaborn has wide format capability.
Wide format means you provide the dataset,
but you don't specify any individual column to use.
You just specify the kind.
The categorical plot kind equals box,
and then let me make it wider here,
raising aspect of 3.5.
By default, the wide format plotting will
create a box plot for each variable in the dataset.
All of the variables are contained in a single axis.
So you get all numeric columns lined up side by side.
What's unique about the sonar dataset is,
it has already been specified by
the original data authors that
no variable is outside the bounds 0-1.
As you can see, some columns span that
range while other columns do not.
Some are very, very narrow,
they're really tiny range.
But no variable is outside the range 0-1.
That's how the authors made it.
So you might be thinking to yourself, "Well,
why would I need to then even consider the long format?
Why can't I just rely on the wide format.
For example, I want to make
a point plot where I don't join them.
Why can't I just rely
on this plot to study what's happening?"
It's really critical to
remember what the wide format is doing.
It's letting you compare across the columns.
It's not letting you compare
grouped by a categorical variable,
We cannot easily group
by a categorical with the wide format.