Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/IwfBo/exploring-the-diamonds-dataset

English
But we can do more than just creating the histograms.
We can also study the conditional distributions of
the numeric columns given
or grouped by a categorical variable.
Let's create a box plot to show the relationship
between one of the three categoricals
with each numeric and I'm going to focus
on the color categorical variable.
Color. The y axis
will be the numeric value, the column facet.
Again, the variable column,
and let's wrap to create three columns
per row, kind equals box.
Now, because this is catplot,
it actually has an argument share y,
which I can specify to false.
I will keep the x axis to be the same because I'm
examining the same set of
categories across the categorical variable.
Again, now, each facet is a separate numeric variable.
For example, look for the table variable,
the box plot is telling us the inter quartile range,
the min of the box to the top of
the box is basically the same
across all categories of the color variable.
So table its summary stats,
I mean, they don't really seem to change at all.
However, the variable x,
there does seem to be something going on and we can,
of course, study the conditional means,
or the average per group.
To save a little time, I'll just
copy this code in this cell,
and I'm doing that to highlight to
you the approach is the same,
but I'm just changing the plot.
I'm using a point plot,
and then I'll set join equal to false.
But the rest of the syntax,
the rest of the arguments are the same,
even if I want to study now a different question.
I'm no longer asking are
the summary statistics of the distributions the same.
I'm now asking are
the averages different across the categories.
Now, the average of table,
it does seem to show differences.
For example, here, the average is 57.4,
and the confidence interval does
not overlap for another value of color.
Now, are these meaningfully different values
57.4 compared to 57.9?
Well, that is a different question.
That's a question not answered by,
is it a statistically significant difference
and that's something we will discuss later on.
But you can see I'm comparing the distribution via
summary stats versus the conditional averages,
the means and don't forget,
you always need to examine the shape of the distribution.
Again, let me just paste it in,
change it to viooln.
Now we are examining
the shape of the distribution across the categories.
The distribution for table for each category of color.
This is not symmetric so the box plot is not
really addressing the changes between these categories.
Whereas depth, it does appear to be more symmetric,
though it has these very long extreme whiskers.
There's more we could do with diamonds,
but that's all I'll do for the moment and I want
to now conclude by discussing the Sonar dataset.