Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/b0KY3/first-look-at-interesting-datasets

English
>> Hello everyone.
In this video, we will continue to motivate why we want to find
patterns by bringing in some of the example data for this week.
As you can see, I already have Jupyter opened.
I am in the directory for this week for the class.
I am now going to launch a new Jupyter notebook.
If you don't have Jupyter already started, please pause the recording and do so.
When you come back, make a new notebook and let's name this notebook,
week_08_ motivate_example_data.
Okay, let's now put in some header information.
CMPINF 2100 week 08 motivate the example data for
working with many variables,
let's go ahead and import modules.
Let's bring in the big four,
import numpy as np, import pandas as pd,
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt, import seaborne as sns.
Once you've done that, let's go through and import some data.
We have worked with the penguins data set.
We will continue to work with it.
Penguins = sns.load_dataset penguins,
check the info to make sure it's here.
And as a reminder, we have explored this data set and
a pairs plot is really useful for
exploring this data set.
Here's another example data that we've worked with a little bit.
Diamonds, diamonds also comes from seaborne,
sns load data set diamonds.
If you check its info, there are ten columns,
three of which are non numeric.
They're categories, a data type, we will discuss more this week.
Seven of them are numeric.
The interesting thing really about this example is that there are a lot of data,
almost 54,000 rows.
But because there are seven numeric variables,
a pairs plot is still appropriate.
We can still use a pairs plot.
Now, as you can see when I run this cell,
it takes a little while to create and you'll see why that is.
Because after all, there are so many observations,
it can be difficult to see what's going on.
The advanced 2D relationships optional reading discusses what's happening in here
and in the visualization class comp 2130 we discuss alternative visualizations and
those advanced visualizations in detail to know how to better create the pairs plot.
The point being, we can still use it for
this example because there are just seven numeric variables.
But let's now go ahead and use a data set that's new for the class.
Let's work with the wine data set.
To get this data set, we need to use the URL.
I've opened up the page that has the data for
this week and I've copied the URL and I will paste it.
Next we need to copy the names of the variables.
You can see you're going to get a very long list,
that's perfectly okay, to read in the data.
Pd.read_csv wine_url,
names = wine_names.
When it has completed you should be able to run the info method.
And now the result.
This data set appears to be quite small
because there are under 200 rows,
but we have 14 columns.
You can attempt a pairs plot for
this data set, but 14 columns and
we will discuss these columns in more detail later.
But a pairs plot with this many columns is essentially information overload.
I feel a pairs plot, it maxes out between seven to ten variables.
You can get away with eleven to twelve variables, but
anything really more than that, nobody's going to look at it.
I don't care what anybody tells you, the more stuff you just throw out there,
the less someone will actually look at it.
And in fact, you can see how long it took to even create this graphic.
Look at all the stuff here.
There's one thing that stands out, which again we will discuss in more detail
when we go through this data set when we explore it later.
But no one's going to look at all these plots.