Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/JWYmn/further-visual-customization-to-enhance-visualization

English
Let's now wrap up this video
by discussing the background theme or style.
Now, as you've seen, as I've gone
through and changed these color palettes,
they don't all look as nice on this white background.
By default, the background
of the figure is white without grid lines.
We can change the background
using the Sns-set_ style function.
For example, we can create a dark background theme.
Now, dark, as you'll see here,
I think it's a little misleading
because when I hear dark,
I think of something like
a very dark black color but instead,
a dark theme to seaborn is gray.
Now, when I create
the same scatter plot coloring by the numeric variable,
you can see I get this gray background.
Certain, let me copy this code and paste it.
Certain color palettes look
better on the gray background,
compared to others, like Magma looks much better,
I think, compared to the default.
Turbo. The blues and the reds look good,
but the middle greens and yellows don't look as good.
I like to use a white background with
grid lines to create that Sns-set style white grid.
Let me just paste this in.
You can see we get the white background,
but now we get vertical and horizontal reference lines
at the tick marks, T-I-C-K.
The grid lines really help interpreting and reading.
If I want to know what's
the rough bounds of this grouping,
I just follow the grid lines.
It's between 210 and 230.
Turbo looks I think pretty good on the white.
The yellows also appear decent on the white background.
Viridis also looks good to have as the sequential.
A dark grid has
a gray pink background with white grid lines.
Sns-set style dark grid.
Now, you get white grid lines instead of gray.
If you want a black background,
you need to use a strange syntax.
I really mean it. This is very strange.
Sns-set style dark grid.
Now you need to add in
additional attributes of the dark grid.
You need to set the axis.face color.
I'm inputting this as a dictionary.
The key axis.face color,
we now need to input how we wish to scale the dark grid.
But oddly enough, you can't put this in as a number.
It has to be a number
at wrap with quotes to make it a string.
I want to reduce the coloring of the dark grid by 10%.
I have to give it as a string.
Now, you can see we get the black panel.
The benefit of the black panel is
that yellows appear really well.
Turbo looks very good.
The yellows of viridis show up very clearly.
Diverging color scales like cool warm,
the midpoint now appears really easily.
Because again, everything is a black background.
You can even have white markers now.
The background theme is applied to all facets.
If I, you know,
set the column facet based on species,
and here I'll use
turbo and let's just reverse it to show it.
The background theme is applied to everything.
The default theme is
a white background without grid lines.
You can return to that with Sns-set style
white and you can see we're back.
The purpose of this video is
one to review important syntax of the scatter plot,
review coloring by categorical variable,
introduce a few different
color palettes you could consider,
but each of these has only a limited number of colors,
so you have to be careful.
Then we saw how to color by
a continuous variable and discussed
several different kinds of palettes you could use
multiple sequential and diverging,
and then discuss that.
Once you have included or changed the colors,
you may need to modify your background,
so it's easy to see the colors you are choosing.