Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/uJ1Fc/introduction-to-cluster-analysis

English
Hello class.
This video is a conceptual introduction and overview of KMeans.
The recording is here.
Now, below it on the module page is an item that has more detailed readings.
The first assigned reading is a series of slides,
a presentation I have put together, that walks through a very simple example.
This simple example involves one variable, and it's adapted from a YouTube channel,
one of the few that I think is actually pretty good.
That very simple example works again with one variable
where the data are generated from three groups,
a left group, a middle group and a right group.
The goal of cluster analysis is to work with the data.
When you don't know the groups, you're going to see
if you can organize the observations into distinct
separate groups just based on the values of the variable.
The slides discuss everything about how k means works.
It discusses what the key terms are.
It discusses how we define similarity.
It then demonstrates k means for each step of the algorithm.
On this very simple example,
I really recommend going through these slides.
To supplement the slides, there are book readings from
the data science from scratchbook as well as the JVG book.
You can choose either, again to help supplement what's in the slides.
But in this recording I'm instead going to go through something that's provided at
the very end.
At the very end of the slide deck, is a link to a website.
And this website is really great because it allows us to animate k-means.
It's a little quicker to go through and animate everything than it is for
me to talk through in detail what's happening.
So that's what's inside the presentation.
But I want to quickly go through and introduce the main
concepts of k-means using this website to help animate it.
So on this website I'll choose, there are a bunch of options here,
but I want to focus on the packed circles example.
Now in this example you can think of it as there are two variables and
we have made a scatter plot.
There's x1 and x2.
K-means works with numeric columns, numeric variables.
This is really important.
Now, as you can see in the scatter plot,
there are these different rings or circles.
Those circles which I'm drawing literal circles around,
are how I kind of identify groupings or clusters, or
neighborhoods of observations that have similar values of the variables.
Cluster analysis gets its name because we
are literally trying to group the numeric values
of the variables together into neighborhoods
that have similar variable values.
Similarity is based on distance in
cluster analysis methods.
For example, this cluster, this packed circle in the top right,
all of the observations inside it are much closer
together than they are to the observations in the cluster in the lower left.
The ideal goal of cluster analysis, is that you are creating
clusters that are far from other clusters, and yet
every data point contained inside it is close to it.
Or, to use a geography example,
the whole dataset is like the country the United States, and
we want to be able to draw borders around the cities
that are contained in separate states inside the country.
Some cities are near borders or boundaries between states,
and other cities are very clearly in the center of the state.
Cities that are close by each other, we will group or
cluster in the same state, whereas cities that are far
from each other, we will cluster into separate states.
Let's now conceptually see how this happens.