Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/h1eLb/leveraging-long-format-data-for-efficient-analysis

English
The wide format does not
let us easily group by categoricals.
The long format allows us to easily group by
categoricals and
associate figure elements with the numerics.
Now, what do I mean by that?
Let's create a box plot again.
But because we're using a long format dataset,
I have a variable that lets me
associate something with the x-axis.
This x-axis is the original numeric column names,
which in my long format dataset is column variable.
The y-axis is the value and the kind is box.
I can therefore, replicate
what's going on in the wide format.
In fact, this is actually
what's taking place behind the scenes.
It will reshape it for you.
But again, why is the long format useful?
Group by the numeric variable X60.
We can't do this in the wide format data.
We can't say x equals variable,
y equals value,
hue equals X60, kind equals box.
Now, you will see
two colors associated with each variable.
We are lining up the variable side by side and asking,
is there a difference
in the summary stats for each variable?
We're really looking for separation of the boxes.
Now, nothing really stands out,
a lot of them have boxes that are directly lining up,
whereas some of them, though,
the boxes are starting to separate.
But we can also ask,
is there a difference in
each numeric variable in its average value?
Because we can use a point plot.
Coloring by X60,
we now get one color per category.
Again, the vertical lines are
the 95% confidence intervals.
When the confidence intervals overlap,
we are not confident in
the difference in the average across the groups.
But when the confidence intervals
separate or do not overlap,
then we are confident that
there are differences across the groups.
Now, because every variable in this example is 0-1,
we can line them all up side by side,
but the long format allows us
to now quickly glance to see
which variables are different
across the categories on average?
Let's quickly summarize what we just talked about.
We reviewed two datasets and introduced two more.
The common theme was,
if we have less than 10 numeric variables,
we can use point plots.
But if we have more than 10 numeric variables,
it's hard to use point plots.
That's what's motivating cluster analysis and PCA.
But before we get to cluster analysis and PCA,
we cannot forget about reshaping
the data in order to allow us to
explore the individual numeric variables and
their conditional distributions quickly through facets.
It will really help in situations when you
have dozens and dozens of variables.
Again, this is the disclaimer.
Do not forget about reshaping.
It will help you.