Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/2Zc6p/limitations-of-scatter-plots-with-categorical-variables-as-colors

English
Hello everyone, in this video,
we're going to review important aspects of the scatter plot.
This will help us extend the scatter plot to handle more than just two variables.
I already have Jupyter opened up.
I'm in the project the directory that we have been working in throughout
the semester.
I have a new directory in here titled week 08.
I'm clicking inside this directory and I'm going to launch a new Jupyter Notebook.
If you need to pause the video and launch Jupyter yourself, please do so.
And once you come back, launch the Jupyter Notebook within this directory.
Going to change the file name here to week 08, review scatter plots.
Okay, let's now go in and put in the header information.
Pompit 2100 week 08, review scatterplots.
And really what we're going to be talking about is coloring by a third variable.
Let's now import in the big four.
We need numpy as np, we need pandas as pd.
We need mathplotlib.pyplot as plt, and
we need seaborne as sns.
We will continue to work with the penguins data set
just as we worked with the last few weeks.
So I'm using the seaborne sns load dataset function to load in penguins.
And let's just confirm we have it by calling the dot info method.
Now, we will not go through the complete exploration of penguins in this video,
we are just focused on relationships between numeric columns.
That's what we're focused on.
We know how to create a scatterplot to visualize
the relationship between 2 numeric or
continuous columns in a data frame.
For example, we will make the scatter plot between
flipper length millimeters and bill depth millimeters.
I will use the figure level function sns.relplot for relationship.
The goal is to study the relationship.
All figures start with data.
Data = penguins, x = flipper_length_mm,
y = bill_depth_mm, plt.show.
Okay, we have our data set which seems to have these kind of two groupings.
If I draw this diagonal line, we see a grouping below and a grouping above.
Now, we learned that we can color by
a categorical or non numeric column.
We will include a third variable in the scatter cloth.
This third variable allows us to effectively group by or
condition on a grouping variable.
For example, let's color by the species column.
The code, the syntax is very much the same.
Sns.relplot, data= penguins,
x = flipper_length_mm, y = bill_depth_mm.
In seaborn, when we want to associate the color
with a variable, a column in our data frame,
we need to use the hue, H-U-E argument, hue.
Now we get three colors shown by or
three colors distinguishing the three categories of species.
Again, gen 2, that's this lower grouping, and
then the other two species are kind of muddied together.
They're overlapping each other.
Now I have made this plot using the default color palette.
The default categorical or sometimes called
qualitative color palette is used above.
But we can change the color palette, to speed things up,
I'm going to copy the code here in this cell in order to paste it.
I don't like to copy and paste, but it will be handy because
all I'm going to change is I will add in the palette argument.
To change the palette, we can provide a string which
corresponds to the name of a different color palette.
This is the dark two categorical or qualitative color palette.
You can see the colors are different.
Let's try another one
palette accent another
one palette set 1.
I personally like set one compared to the default,
but set one has a very clear drawback.
Set 1 uses red and
green together.
Red distinguishes one group from another group.
When we are deciding the kinds of colors we should use,
we should be aware about if our color choices are colorblind friendly.
The set 1 palette is not colorblind friendly.
An individual who's colorblind would not be able to tell the difference between
the adelie and gen 2 species.
There is a colorblind friendly palette.
It's named colorblind.
Now I am not colorblind and so I like the red and the green.
But when I provide reports, I will very often do
the best I can to try and be colorblind friendly.
Each of these color palettes that I have shown you here,
they have a limited number of colors.
So oftentimes or most categorical or
qualitative color palettes have a limited
number of colors to use or to choose from.
The benefit of the default palette of
the default color palette is that it can
handle a enormous number of categories,
so it really doesn't matter.
I always recommend first creating the graph with the default colors, but
because it's important for you to always know the number of unique values,
the number of categories that you're working with,
you can then choose the appropriate color palette for the task.
Maybe wondering how do I know what colors to use or the name of the color palettes?
I just look it up and the documentation for
seaborn is linked to as an optional reading for this week.
You do not have to read it in this course.
I'm typically okay if you use the default colors, especially for
categorical variables.
We dive into colors in more detail in the art for visualization class, comp 2130.