Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/TNhVH/need-for-preprocessing-and-standardizing-variables-for-fair-clustering-analysis

English
If you describe the data,
you can get that same thing but with the hard numbers.
Look at the difference in the means,
40, 17, 200, 4,200 or something in the tens,
something in the hundreds, something in the thousands.
Look at the standard deviation,
single digits, double digits, triple digits.
A change of a value of one for
bill depth is equal to nearly its standard deviation,
but a change of a value of one
for body mass G is next to nothing.
That doesn't matter. If we
use the data or if we use
the columns with the raw values,
the magnitudes and scales
will impact the cluster results.
We do not want the magnitudes and
scales to impact things.
Essentially, we want to work with variables that
are roughly the same magnitude and scale.
We need to remove the scale
and thus transform or modify the variables.
That's why we must preprocess.
I'm now going to demonstrate how to do this manually.
I very rarely execute these actions manually,
but it is important to see them.
There are many different preprocessing operations.
But we will focus on one very important approach,
and that approach is called standardization.
Standardizing means you are calculating the z-score.
What is the z-score?
It's the number of
standard deviations away from the average.
It requires two simple steps
or it requires two summary statistics.
It needs the sample average
and it needs the sample standard deviation.
The z-score is calculated by centering,
which means you subtract
the value from the sample average,
and then you scale,
you divide the centered value
by the sample standard deviation.
Let's demonstrate on one numeric column in penguins.
Let's demonstrate how to do this.
I'll make a new dataset,
a new data frame, which is a deep copy.
I'll call it penguin_z.
My goal is to
apply the standardization to flipper_length_millimeters.
I, therefore, need to calculate its sample average.
I also need to calculate its standard deviation.
Centering, you take
each observations value and you
subtract the sample average.
Now you might see a few odd looking things
printed to the screen here.
We will return to these in
the next recording because they are important.
But for right now, just focus on
the average or focus on the values.
When you center,
you calculate the difference
of the value from its average.
You can have positive and negative numbers.
Then you scale.
You take the center value,
which is the variable,
minus its mean and you divide by
its sample standard deviation.
You no longer have values in the original units.
You have a variable minus
its mean divided by the standard deviation.
You have a unitless number.
The z-score is how many standard deviations
is the value from its average.
Let's assign the z-score to a new call.
I'll just copy this code,
so I don't have to redo it.
But penguins_z, assign it to flipper_length_zscore.
There we go. Now let's compare
the original or raw variable to
its standardized z-score value.
penguins_z.loc, all rows of
the flipper_length_millimeter column
and the flipper_length_zscore column.
You can see the values are in the hundreds.
But the z-score,
we only see single digits printed to the screen.
Compare the summary statistics between the two.
penguins_z.loc, all rows
of the flipper_length_millimeter column,
the flipper_length_zscore column, describe.
Now, when I apply the describe method,
it's easy to read the summary stats on the raw variable.
But because of the scientific notation,
we might miss that this mean is
zero because it's e to something really tiny.
What can help is you can
round to a certain number of decimal points.
Here I'm rounding to three decimal points.
Now, the sample average in the raw variable is 200,
but the sample average for the z-score is zero.
A standardized variable, by definition,
has an average of zero.
Now look at the standard deviation.
The raw variable is 14,
but the z-score is one.
By definition, a z-score or
a standardized variable has a standard deviation of one.
The min is negative 2, the max is two,
whereas the raw value,
the min is 170 and the max is 200.
We have converted from whatever the original scale is,
the original range to
something usually between negative 3 and positive 3.