Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/g418v/scatter-plots-with-color-as-a-third-continuous-variable

English
But there's nothing actually
new with any of these graphics.
This is everything we've done previously.
But let's now do something new.
Let's color by a numeric column.
We can color by
a third numeric or continuous variable in a scatter plot.
We don't have to only color by a categorical.
Remember, this application, this dataset,
it has four numeric columns.
Let's use body mass G. The syntax is the same,
where we start with the data.
We specify the x axis variable,
we specify the y axis variable
and setting the color based
on a numeric column follows
the exact same syntax as when
we used a categorical or non numeric column.
We associate that variable with q.
Our first hint that we are working with
a numeric column is that
the color palette is not the default categorical palette.
We don't see orange, blue, green.
Instead, we see this other set of colors.
This set of colors is sequential, where by default,
there's a light color as
a low value and a dark color as a high value.
Something that can be a little confusing
though is you are shown exactly 1,
2, 3, 4,
5 values, but we
know body mass G has 94 values.
These six are just representative.
It's trying to say light values are 3000-3600,
then the next here are 3600-4200.
Then the next here are 4,200-4800,
then 4800-5400, and lastly,
the highest values are 5400-6000.
This is just giving you a representative set
of values to help you distinguish
the colors or associate colors
with values of the variable.
A key point about coloring by a numeric column is that
we oftentimes want the color palette
to represent the sequential nature of the variable.
We literally want the increasing values
to be associated with something about the color.
Now, I'm going to again, copy this code,
so I don't have to keep typing it again and again,
and I'm now going to show you a handful of
different sequential color palettes.
Because I personally don't
like the default color palette,
I think it's hard to see.
I prefer the viridis,
V-I-R-I-D-I-S, the viritis color palette.
Viridis, low values are dark blue,
middle values are green,
high values are bright yellow.
viritis is color blind friendly,
and you can also even print it in
gray scale if you wanted to
print and you didn't have color ink.
It will show up as black to white.
If you would instead want
the highest values to be dark blue,
you can use Viritis_r,
that reverses the color palette.
Now, the yellows are the smallest values,
the greens are still the middles,
but the dark blues are the highest values.
Another option that's slightly
more muted than viritis is mako,
dark blue to this light teal slash turquoise.
A color palette that
I've come to particularly like is turbo Turbo.
It has dark blues for dark values,
green to yellow, for middle values,
orange to red for very high values.
Turbo is very useful when you really want to
distinguish between low and high values,
because you're now contrasting the blue with the red.
The downside though of
Turbo is that it is not color blind.
It is not particularly color blind
friendly because it has the greens with the reds.
It's not a pure green,
but it can be difficult
for individuals that are color blind.
If that is not a concern,
you can reverse Turbo,
again, to switch the sequential aspect.
But I like Turbo, but again,
you need to be aware color
blind individuals may struggle with it.
That's where viritis comes into play,
or another useful palette is magma
and inferno and plasma.