Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/mDfA8/utilizing-principal-components-for-efficient-clustering-analysis

English
Look at the generic structures you're seeing,
we see, Two groupings,
if I scroll back up to our pairs plot.
We kind of saw groupings like that before,
but the variables that we're looking at
are not flipper length millimeters and
build depth millimeters.
The variables that we're looking at, these principal components,
they actually account for all four original variables.
How that happens again, that's something that we will talk about later.
I first want to just demonstrate why it's useful and
beneficial to use the principal components with clustering.
But to give you some idea,
let's calculate the correlation matrix
between these two new variables.
Fig, ax, plt subplots,
sns heatmap, pca pens, corr.
Just to be safe, apply to numeric only.
Vmin -1 vmax positive 1, center equals 0.
Annot true, annot keywords,
fontsize 20 ax equals ax plt show.
I forgot to set my preferred color palette, cool, warm, there we go.
Now, by default, you can see we get the scientific notation.
If I set format to g, well, that didn't seem to help, either.
And so instead, FMT format, I want to have three decimals.
So .3f, f stands for float.
How many values to the right of the decimal three?
The newly created variables, the principal components,
have correlation coefficients of 0.
They are uncorrelated to each other.
They are uncorrelated because the correlation is across both of
these groupings.
And here,
let's just even confirm that one more time with lmplot data equals pca pens.
Data frame x equals pc1, y equals pc2.
We just have that flat line, there's no relationship.
But we can include grouping variables
with our principal components,
pca pens, Let's add in species.
Let's take it right from the clean penguins dataset.
Now, if I use my lmplot on pca pens,
x equals pc01, y equals pc02, hue is species.
Look at the green and the blue.
The chin strap has markers in both of these groupings.
But Gentoo and Adelie are really separated across those groupings.
What does that remind you of?
Maybe it reminds you of the fact we saw
it was easy to separate the penguins data into two clusters.
The principal components analysis,
the pca or the newly created variables,
are easily identifying the two primary groups in the data.
We don't have to look across all of these different pairs
plots to see where can we group the data into two groups.
In this case, pca does that for us.