Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/0gZkO/why-do-we-need-to-find-patterns

English
Hello everyone.
In this video we're going to motivate what finding patterns means.
To do so, we need to take a trip down memory lane.
In the first week of the semester, when we talked about the big picture and
the overall goals in data analytics data science,
we discussed a few different learning paradigms.
That's a very fancy way of saying we discuss different kinds of
modeling applications, the first of which is supervised learning.
Supervised learning is also known as predictive modeling or
predictive analytics.
The goal is to learn a relationship between a response or output with inputs.
We want to be able to predict the response given the inputs,
the response becomes a defined target.
We are able to assess how well our model fits the data
because we can calculate an actual error or
examine the accuracy of our model relative to the known observed target output.
But there's another important type of learning
paradigm known as unsupervised learning.
In unsupervised, we do not make any distinction between inputs and outputs.
You can think of it as we simply have variables.
The goal is still to learn relationships,
but without having an actual response.
There is no target that we can use to
assess how well our model fits the data.
Therefore, unsupervised learning problems are actually
very open ended and there is no defined right answer.
As you'll see, some answers are more appropriate than others.
But the goal is we want to try and
find patterns either between the variables or
between the observations.
In terms of pandas data frames, we can either find patterns
between columns or we can find patterns between rows.
Now, why is this useful?
Well exploratory data analysis,
EDA is how we are finding or exploring a data set.
To find patterns, we've discussed over the last few weeks that you need to know
the number of columns, the number of variables and their names.
You need to know their data types,
you need to know their number of unique values.
You need to know how many missings.
This will allow you to describe or study the distribution of the variables.
You can examine their summary statistics.
For categorical non numeric variables, you can consider their counts or
numeric with very low number of unique values.
For continuous or numeric columns, you look at their histogram or
their density plot.
Then when you want to find relationships, you can examine
combinations between categorical or non numeric variables.
You can consider categorical to continuous relationships with the conditional KDE or
the specialized plots of the box plot, violin and the point plot.
And then you can consider relationships between continuous variables,
scatter plots, pairs plots, correlation plots.
All of these can also be grouped by categorical to study
how grouped relationships change across categories.
But as you've seen over the last few weeks, EDA can be tedious.
It can be difficult to try and find those patterns when we have dozens of variables.
And it gets even more challenging if we would have hundreds,
if hundreds of variables and thousands and thousands of observations.
To motivate this, let's consider we have a high dimensional problem,
a problem with many columns, like maybe we have 50 variables.
You might be tempted to want to use the pairs plot in order
to study the relationships between every between each pair of variables.
But I do not recommend creating a pairs plot with 50 variables.
You would make a 50 by 50 plot matrix, and
I can guarantee you nobody's actually going to look at all of
those plot those subplots in your pairs plot, nobody will.
Unsupervised learning can help you because it will help
identify relationships and groups automatically.
It helps us focus our attention on interesting behavior.
For example, can we identify observations or rows that are similar to each other?
Or can we visualize the data in an informative way, in a streamlined way?
This week we will introduce two very important unsupervised learning
approaches.
We will first use clustering to group rows in the data.
We will specifically talk about k means this week.
Then, in problems where we have many variables,
we will want to hopefully create new variables
that represent all of the original ones.
This allows us to create a smaller number of meaningful plots.
We will discuss how to use PCA, principal components analysis this week.
We will return to PCA later in the semester to discuss it in more detail
because it is just that important.
This week we will just introduce it to show how we can use it to help our EDA and
later in the semester we will discuss more what it's doing.
I hope you found this video useful to help motivate things.
The next video will continue to motivate by showing you a few representative
data sets to see why we want to be able to use these kinds of approaches.
That's all for this one.
Good luck.