Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/hp8WM/effective-data-visualization

English (auto)
We're going to continue looking at visualization principles and understanding ways that you can
support effective data visualization. Here we are going to be looking at principles suggested by
Alberto Cairo, who is a graphical journalist, and these principles provide an excellent summary of
what characterizes great data visualization. You can read more about these visualization principles
in his very influential book, The Truthful Art, which is referenced in this course as well.
So the first principle that Alberto Cairo discusses in terms of data visualization is about
that the data visualization needs to be truthful. If you think about the distinction that we talked
about in terms of the science versus art of data visualization, this truthful data visualization
really focuses on aspects of scientific visualization, which means the data should be
based on thorough and objective research and trying to make sure that it avoids distortions
or manipulation that might misrepresent the data's actual meaning. Next principle is the data
visualization needs to be functional. That means that it should serve a clear purpose and design
for intended function to inform, to persuade, or to explore aspects of data. Then moving from more
of the scientific words into also the artistic parts, Cairo's principles also indicate that data
visualization needs to be beautiful, meaning that it should be an aesthetically pleasing display of
information. Well-chosen color schemas, clean layouts, and balanced spacing can enhance the
viewer's experience without sacrificing the truthfulness or clarity. Beauty should not come
at the cost of accuracy or functionality, as we discussed this before as well. Data visualizations
should be insightful and should provide meaningful insights and deeper understanding to help reveal
patterns, trends, and relationships that are not obvious otherwise in raw data. They need to be
enlightening, meaning that they should tell a story and capture the viewer's attention.
They should also be ethically responsible, should ensure that data is not manipulated
to deceive or mislead or pursue a specific agenda. So as you go through these different
visualizations throughout this course, try to make sure that you remember these six principles
of data visualizations need to be truthful, they need to be functional and have a purpose, and not
just focus on visualizing data, but at the same time they need to be beautiful as long as we
remember that this beauty is not compromising the truthfulness and functional aspects of
visualization. They need to be insightful, enlightening, and ethically responsible.
Let's look at some examples. So here in this visualization, the goal of this visualization,
the function, is basically to show the main nationalities of arriving migrants to Greece in
2016. So for example, this part shows that there is 47 percent coming from Syria, 24 percent coming
from Afghanistan, 15 percent coming from Iraq, and so on and so forth. Now the question to you is that
is this a good visualization? And every time that we think about whether something is a good
visualization or not, what you want to remember, as Alberto Cairo discusses, is the function and the
purpose of what we want to communicate through this visualization. So to judge whether this is
a good visualization or not, it really depends. What is it that we want to communicate? So let's
say that what we want to communicate is that showing that half of the migrants to Greece
came only from one country. If that's our purpose, then providing probably a visualization like this,
which showed these half coming from Syria in one color and the rest of the countries in another
color, is a much better visualization than this visualization that has all these different colors
that could actually distract the main point in terms of making that main point that half of the
migrants are coming from one country. If what we want to show is these sorts of comparison, we can
also consider basically these sorts of charts. It basically shows Syria on the top as a bar chart
and orders the rest of the countries below that as well, which basically shows how this one country
is so much more of the migrants, but at the same time provides a clear visual representation of
where other countries are coming from. Now if you want to show more of the relationship between
the percentage of migration and maybe proximity to Greece, a map-based visualization, as you can
see in the top of this figure, might be a better visualization when it shows basically where each
of these countries are located and then a circle over that country that shows the size of the
migration and how basically that is connected to Greece. So here in this map-based visualization,
now you can see that for example proximity of Syria maybe is playing a role in terms of Syria
having the highest percentage of migrants coming to Greece. So really as you think about what is a
good visualization, thinking about the purpose is really important. There are additional resources
that are provided in the course as good resources for understanding these different aspects of visualization.