Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/bfKJm/how-to-visualize

English (auto)
Now that we looked at the data visualization principles
and learned about the different data types
and what the different data types could
mean for visualization, we're going to also look
at how we want to visualize.
And looking at the major types of data charts
and thinking about what kinds of data types
are actually appropriate for these different data
visualization and when is the right time
to use a specific visualization.
One of the major forms of visualizations
are line charts that you saw in the historical examples
also as one of the early on examples of data visualizations.
So in the line charts, the y value
is a vertical position of the line
that you're trying the parts of the data
that you're representing in the line.
The x value is the horizontal position of the line.
The line connects the visual elements together
and is typically used to show the relationship
between two numerical variables.
So if you look at, for example, this case
that is basically showing the relative popularity
of different visualization types in percentage.
So that's kind of what is shown on the y-axis
and then the x-axis,
we have the different types of visualization.
So here the line is actually connecting
these data points together,
which in this case, because this continuity
is not meaningful.
And so what is going from table to scatterplot
is not meaningful.
A line chart is probably not the right format
of presenting these data.
In this case, we might want to consider a bar chart,
which is another very popular examples of data visualization
which the bars are separated graphical elements
to represent data values.
So here is the same information,
but this is a more meaningful representation of that data
by showing these separated visualizations
of the values of popularity
of each data visualization types.
Another very common data visualization is maps
and showing data in maps can provide new insights
and reveal patterns.
So this is a very famous examples
from the work of John Snow,
which showed the cholera deaths
are clustered around water pumps,
as you can see in these darker areas on the map.
And this was actually what helped to the discovery
of the water contributing to the outbreak
and helping actually to remedy that.
Showing data on maps could actually be done
in different formats.
You can have the density maps for each observation.
For example, a cholera death in the case of the cholera map
is indicated by a dot or a similar marker
and higher density means higher frequency.
Cholera maps where data is aggregated to geographical areas
is another way of using maps as data visualization,
which uses the specific geographical boundaries
often decided by administrative units,
such as countries, regions, or counties,
the value is shown by color of that unit.
So this is the example that we saw earlier
in terms of the census data and population density.
Combining the standard chart types with maps
is another way of showing data on maps.
So you can have bar charts that are displayed on a map
or the circles like the examples that you saw
in terms of the migrants going from the countries
around Greece into Greece,
that you had the circles as a way of more a chart type
that's like a bar chart overlaid over a map
to show both the geographical distance
and also other attributes in the data.
These are more different types of charts
that you can also consider.
You can have a scatter plots
that basically shows the dots over certain points.
You can have timelines
and you can combine these different
kinds of visualizations together.
You are provided with resources
to explore these different kinds of chart types.
And as we go through the next modules,
you will also learn how to create yourself
using programming codes,
these different kinds of chart types.