Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/rJyuV/principles-of-visualization

English (auto)
There are different principles of a visualization that help us design better data visualization.
These could be different principles of perceptions of how we understand visualization, as well
as principles that apply into formatting the visualizations.
So here we are going to be looking at some of these principles of perceptions.
A very well-known principles of perception is Gustav Principles of Perception, which
is a set of rules that describe how humans naturally organize visual elements into coherent
wholes based on patterns and relationship.
These are essential when we think about data visualization as they help us explain how
people perceive and interpret complex visual data and help us organize data based on understanding
of these elements of perceptions.
In the next slides, we are going to look at different aspects of these principles.
The first one is proximity.
Objects that are close together are perceived as a group.
As when you look at this graph, this figure here, you very naturally are going to be grouping
these ones together, these ones together, and these ones together as understanding that
these are three different sets of circles represented.
And this is just by the fact that these dots have closer proximity to each other.
So how do we apply this principle of proximity in visualization?
We can also arrange elements that are closer to each other if they are related.
So here we can see that placing the titles near the charts, they're related to.
So here this is the title for the entire chart.
This is the title for this chart, and this is the title for this part of the chart.
And just proximity provides this cue to people as they're trying to read this visualization.
Similarly, you can see that legends are actually provided in ways that are closer to what they're
supposed to be explaining.
And these filters that allow to change actually this visualization is also positioned as close
to this visualization, communicating that this filter is for this part of the visualization.
The second principle is principle of similarity.
Objects that share similar attributes are also perceived as a group.
So here in the same visualization that we saw before, by having these different colors,
now within even these three groups, we are perceiving the purple ones as one group together.
How do we apply this principle of visualization in our own visualization?
We can use similarly like colors here to actually represent a particular pattern.
So color is one measure of similarity, which can be very effective as we think about data visualization.
The next principle is principle of enclosure.
In addition to what we already saw in terms of proximity and similarity, we can also use
an enclosed area as a way of defining an area belonging to a group.
So here again, if you look at here very quickly, you would assume that there is something about
this part of graph different, that these are basically grouped together.
Again, we can apply this in our own data visualization.
So here you can see by using this background light gray color, this seems to be grouped together.
Similarly, these are grouped together.
We are using basically now these lines to also create other sorts of enclosures that basically
divide these different areas of visualization and guide people to go through this visualization
as they look at it by first maybe exploring this area, then exploring these areas separately
from this other area because we have the line that creates these enclosures.
Closures is another principle, a group of objects that are drawn into something as a whole
and uses very simplicity and a simple and clear way of creating these sorts of connections.
So here these are separate lines, but very quickly we actually see this as a circle,
not as a group of lines because of the way that these are actually created as a whole
as opposed to just different elements.
So we can create, apply these principles of closure in the visualization.
So for example, instead of actually using a lot of extra lines that could actually be
confusing, by having the principle of closure, the fact that these lines basically are just
kind of these different dots part of one line, we actually can see just these patterns without
having to have all these extra elements.
Continuity is another principle of visualization.
When we look at a group of objects, we naturally attempt to organize them.
So here we see these basically as one line and we see this one as another line of how
it continues.
We can apply principle of continuity in charts that we create.
This principle primarily involves sorting and ordering as we create different visualizations.
So for example, bar charts are more comprehensible when arranged from larger to smaller, or time
charts are more comprehensible when they're organized from past to future, as opposed
to showing a random order of the time.
Additionally, we can organize captions, legends, and other visual elements in an organized
in conjunction with the charts that create basically this continuity in reading the information
along the chart.
The next principle is principle of connection, that if objects are connected, we perceive
them as a unified entity.
This principle holds more influence than common colors and shapes that we saw in the previous
principles.
When looking at an image, even if the dots share the same color and possess other similar
characteristics, our initial perceptions connects them through the principle of connection.
As you can see here, the fact that there is basically this line connecting these, we actually
see these as kind of connected to each other.