Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/ae0Iw/what-to-visualize

English (auto)
Now that we looked at different principles of data visualization,
next we're going to be looking at what to visualize and think about
data types and how data types are related to data visualization.
As we think about data visualization,
it is important to understand different types of data.
Since the type of the data can impact
effective ways that we visualize each type of the data.
When thinking about numbers, for example,
we have two main categories of numbers to consider.
Categorical and quantitative.
Categorical data defines discrete levels of
a variable that don't have
a consistent quantitative differences between them.
If you're going to look at examples of this and what each of these means,
they include nominal and ordinal types.
Nominal data represent allocation to
distinct categories and are neither measured nor ordered.
For example, a record of a student's course choices constitutes nominal data,
which could be correlated with the school's results.
Ordinal data represent allocation to distinct categories that are ordered.
For instance, movie rating is an ordinal scale.
Thinking about basically this ordinal versus quantitative,
an important distinction as we think about visualization is that
quantitative scale preserve equality of intervals,
and an interval could be actually meaningful.
As you can see these two different charts here,
here is basically when we are showing some quantitative data,
for example, shipment quantity.
The intervals here are meaningful,
and the distance between 1 and 2 is
the same meaning for everyone as they are looking at this visualization.
Versus if we are showing, for example,
product rating, which is more of a categorical rating,
then these interval differences between 1 and 2 or 2 and 3,
is basically different for different people.
It could be like that.
This is what you can see in this graph is how one person interpret
the difference versus another person could actually be interpreting these differently.
For example, for one person,
5 is much better than 4.
For another person, maybe there is a huge difference between a jump from 1 to 2.
That's a point of consideration that if you are trying to visualize ordinal data,
you might want not to use these sorts of visualization that necessarily
communicates an equality of intervals when it's actually not true to the data.
Continue thinking about these differences between the different types.
When we think also within the quantitative data,
thinking about interval versus ratio data,
here the main difference is that whether there is a absolute zero,
a true zero or not.
If you think about interval data,
those are numerical data that are the equal intervals are meaningful as we talked before,
but they don't necessarily have a true zero points.
Here, if you think about temperature, for example,
the intervals are meaningful from 10 degrees to 20 degrees or
20 degrees to 30 degrees is the same meaning.
But the zero here does not communicate absence of no temperature.
The zero doesn't mean no temperature.
It basically just means another value within these scale of temperatures.
Versus if you think about number of boxes,
here 1 to 2, 2 to 3 is again meaningful intervals and is interpreted the same for everyone,
but zero here means no boxes.
Here, we actually have a true zero.
Again, these are the points of consideration as you think
about when you're dealing with different kinds of data visualization.
Other data types to consider and attributes of data to
consider as you think about data visualization,
we talked about categorical or quantitative data.
Data could also be sequential,
which means quantitative data that progresses in a natural logical order,
often representing in a single direction of going from one way to another.
Timelines are good examples of that.
Diverging datasets, these are the data that has
a central point that diverges in two opposite direction,
often positive and negative.
Here, it could be like a temperature or maybe scales of
racing when you can have both positive and negative when zero being neutral.
Cycle datasets are data that repeat over
a regular interval or is psychotic in nature.
Again, maybe something that are related to time would be an example of cycle,
and considering representations that communicate
these psychotic information is useful for these kinds of data.
You can bring together these data types with the different principles that we discussed,
particularly the Gestalt principles of data visualization,
to think about what would be the best way of visualizing the data that you have.
Similarly, there are different formats given these different data types
that you can consider to visualize the data and to organize the data.
You can have tables,
which basically are columns of attributes and rows of items,
and each cell is representing a certain value.
You can have networks,
which is basically link and nodes that nodes are
representing data points and links are representing connections.
Fields that are basically identifying a particular value within a column or
an arrow and providing information about that specific field of the data.
You have text that could actually be represented,
and we will talk about text visualizations in one of
the modules as well.
You can have multidimensional tables or a special representation
which relies on geographical or especially locating the data,
and you can have trees which relies on a specific structure that exists within the data.
These are different formats to consider that not only what type of data you have,
what is the relationship between the data?
Is your data more of a table?
Is your data has some sort of hierarchy like a tree?
Is the data more of like a network?
Again, you can bring the different principles and these data types all together to
think about visualizations and what is the right visualization.