Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/dcFpn/interpreting-time-series-visualizations

English (auto)
In this lesson, after we have looked at how we can process time series data and we can visualize,
we're going to look at how we can interpret time series data and make sense of time series data.
So generally, when thinking about interpreting time series data, you want to think about these
following questions. Relate to those major components that we discussed in the first
lesson as well. In terms of, is there a trend? Does the series have a trend, whether that's
upward or downward? Are there repeating patterns indication of seasonality? And are there any
sudden spikes or drops that are indicative of anomalies? So as we look at different data,
we want to answer these questions, which will help us make sense of time series data.
So let's look at, for example, these time series data, which is basically showing some data over
a period of time. And so now the first thing is that, as we talked about before,
to be able to observe the trend, you might want to do some processing. So what we can do here
is that we can do rolling mean to highlight the trends in this data. And we want to observe
how the rolling mean smooths the fluctuation, and are they the long-term trends that change
basically after we do this smoothing, and they will become visible. So in case of this data,
if we do any 30-day rolling mean smoothing, you can see that the pattern follows, which is shown
in red, follows the same blue pattern. So basically, it shows the similar sort of patterns of
up and down over a certain regularity. Then in this case, we want to see if there are any
seasonality. So what we can do here is that we learned in the last lesson, we can do resampling
to check for seasonality, to look at periodic patterns in the data and how seasonal changes,
basically, there are peaks or there are declines that happen in the data as we create this
resampling. So if we do the same for the data, you can see these monthly averages that are
presented with these, they're called dots. And you can see that there is a strong seasonality
in this data after we have done the resampling of the data. How does trend compare to seasonality?
Trend refers to the longer-term movements or direction in the data, whether that's upward
or downward, there is flat, and it's consistent over time and does not repeat at fixed interval.
Versus seasonality represents these repeating patterns or cycles that occur at regular
intervals, monthly, quarterly, or yearly. These patterns are often influenced by then those
specific time factors that we talked about before, such as holidays or weather. So if you look at
here this example, you can see that probably there is no specific trend, but there is a strong
seasonality that is happening, that things are basically repeating over this regular interval.
So the ruling means smooth these short-term fluctuations in the data by calculating the
average value over a sliding window frame. And this makes it easier to identify long-term trends
in the data, reduce the impact of noise and outliers, and improve clarity and visualization
for understanding patterns. And then the resampling, so those are the two processes that we just looked
at, both doing the ruling mean and the resampling, that by aggregating data into the broader interval,
whether that would move it from daily to weekly or from weekly to monthly or from daily to monthly,
makes it easier to detect repeating seasonal patterns and highlight periodic changes such as
peaks and declines and simplify and summarize the data for more clear visualizations and analysis.
So as you think about interpreting the time series data, these are the kinds of processing
that you can do and then look at kind of visualizations and make a sense of the data.