Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/wJzIr/introduction-to-time-series-data

English (auto)
In this module, we are going to be looking at time-series data,
understand a little bit about what time-series data is,
and then look into how we can process that and
how we can visualize it using Python libraries.
What are the time-series data?
Time-series data is a sequence of data points
collected or recorded at a specific time intervals.
Examples of that would be stock prices,
weather data, web traffic, or heart rate monitoring.
Key characteristics of time-series data are that data points are
time-ordered and that there are temporal dependencies.
For example, past values could actually
influence what happens in the future and the future values.
Some real-world applications of working with
time-series data related to the examples that we just mentioned,
stock market prediction in finance,
tracking patient health in health domain,
monitoring server performance in technology domain,
or analyzing website traffic trends in marketing.
It actually has a lot of different applications in
different areas and being able to process the data and to be
visualizing the data to use it in some domain
makes it important data to look at.
Some key components of time-series that we are going to
be using to basically understand time-series data
and be able to make sense of this data include trend,
seasonality, cyclicality, noise, and stationarity.
We're going to look at what each of these mean,
how do we understand these different components,
and then when we are looking into visualization,
we are going to be looking at
these aspects and these components as well.
The trend is basically what represents
the long-term direction in the time-series data,
whether the values are increasing or decreasing
or they're remaining constant over time.
When thinking about then how to
identify these different components,
you can basically both try to use
statistical models as well as visualization.
When you visualize a plot of time-series,
you can actually observe the overall direction,
and that is basically indication of the trend.
Sometimes it might be harder to see if the data
especially is not very regular to see this trend.
What we can statistically do is
using what is known as a smoothing techniques,
which basically creates these rolling averages
over periods of time to be able to smooth out the data
and eliminate some of
the short-term fluctuation that might
make the data look too noisy to
be able to see whether the trend exists or not.
We are going to see in
the next lessons how we can
actually do some of these different processes.
Seasonality refers to repeating patterns or cycles that
occur at the regular intervals due to seasonal factors.
It's caused by time-based factors such as months or days.
It's predictable and consistent over
these time periods and time intervals.
It's common in data influenced by weather,
holidays, or other cyclical events.
Example of seasonality in time-series data
could be higher usage of water in summer.
If you're looking at water usage,
which is a time-series data,
we might observe that in summer there is
higher usage and that could actually repeat every summer,
and that's what makes the seasonality patterns in the data.
To identify seasonality, you can again use
visualization and look for
these repeating patterns in data over time.
You can also do these statistical methods of decomposition,
which uses time-series decomposition
to isolate the seasonal components.
It basically breaks the data into different components
and singling out those seasonal effects.
Cyclicality refers to longer-term irregular fluctuation,
as opposed to the seasonality,
which is more of regular fluctuation.
Cyclicality refers to these irregular fluctuation in
time-series data that are not strictly seasonal,
and they could correspond to things like economic or business cycles.
Cycles are generally longer than seasonal patterns
and may not have a fixed frequency.
While, for example, the higher usage of water could happen every summer,
when we see cyclicality,
that might actually not be repeating in these regular intervals.
Example of that could be a economic cycle,
period of recession and expansion,
that while could repeat,
is not something that we expect that will happen regularly.
To identify cyclicality, again,
you can use visualization,
plot the data, and observe any recurring but irregular patterns,
that's different than the seasonality.
You can use statistical models,
techniques like Fourier analysis,
or the spectral analysis that can help you
detect cycles and provides information about those.
Other aspects of time-series are noise or residuals.
These are random variation in data that do not follow a pattern and cannot be
attributed to either the trend or seasonality or cyclic patterns.
Typically assumed to be random and has
no patterns and no specific meanings that could
be clearly identified in that longer term pattern of the data.
Example of that could be a sudden high usage of
water because maybe there have been a broken pipe.
That just causes this noise in the data,
which does not contribute to a specific patterns.
To identify the noise,
you basically after removing trend and seasonality and remaining data,
what is left is the noise and that's why it's called residuals.
Noise can be identified using time-series decomposition or residual plots.
Stationarity referring to the time-series whose
statistical properties do not change over time.
That means the mean, variance,
and other correlation of the structure of the time-series data.
This stationarity could be strict,
which means that the joint distribution of values remains the same,
no matter when you observe the series,
or it could be weak stationarity,
which means that the mean variance and auto-covariance are time invariant,
and that's more practical and more commonly used definition of stationarity.
Why does it matter to look at the stationarity?
It helps with different modeling and different analysis of time-series data.
It helps with the predictive modeling.
Many statistical models rely on the assumption that the data is stationary.
Non-stationary data then can lead into biased model estimates and poor predictions.
It's important to know whether your time-series data has these attributes or not,
to be able to know whether you can actually use some of these prediction models.
It also simplify the analysis.
Stationary time-series are easier to analyze because
their statistical properties do not change over time.
That means that if you're looking at these patterns,
you can rely the patterns over time.
Otherwise, the series should be broken down into
different time and then analyzed over those different time periods.
When the stationarity exists,
then it's easier to extrapolate for forecasting into different time periods,
using the characteristics of the time-series distribution in the previous time.
To identify stationarity,
you can do visual inspections,
plot the series and look for trends and changing variants that is maybe visible in data,
and using rolling statistics,
which is computing and plotting the rolling mean and rolling
a standard deviation over time and see if that is basically changing or not changing.
Let's look at some examples of data.
These are all from different marketing data.
What you can see in the first graph on the right side is the price of dozens of eggs in the US.
What you can see is that you can observe a trend of the price of eggs basically getting cheaper.
In the graph in the middle,
you can see the monthly Austrian beer production,
and you can here see the seasonality that basically these regular every season,
you see the peaks that happens that probably that's maybe right before summer,
that then they produce more beer.
Similarly, in the first graph on the left side,
you can see monthly sales of new one-family houses sold in the US,
and you can again see the seasonality.
Here, you can also see other patterns that might not be exactly seasonality like some of the peaks,
for example, after 1985,
that those could be cyclic or could be noise also in the data.