Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/bw9Pp/box-plots

English
The boxplot is a very useful graphic.
It is created in Seaborn,
using the figure level function catplot because
it's the goal is to
study something about a categorical variable.
We start with the dataset.
The x-axis is now the categorical variable of interest.
But we are examining the relationship
between the categorical and a continuous.
That continuous is assigned to the y-axis, the vertical.
Then we specify kind equals box.
You see Gen2?
It's median is higher
than the medians for the other categories.
Let's go back up and look at our conditional kdeplot.
The Gen2 is shifted to
higher values than the other two categories.
But what I particularly like about
the boxplot is it's really streamlining the whole figure.
We are focused on summary statistics.
Is the median different across the categories.
But the box plot shows even more than that.
The lower end of the box is the 25th percentile.
The upper end of the box is this 75th percentile,
meaning 50% of the data are contained in the box.
The horizontal line is the median.
Fifty percent of the data are less than this point,
50% of the data are greater than it.
But the box is another 50%.
Outside of the box is 50% of the data as well.
The boxplot is really trying to
represent 50% of the data multiple different ways.
If the boxes do not overlap.
That's a really good indication or
clue that the distribution of
the continuous variable is
different across the categories.
Do you see how this green box it's
separated from the boxes in the other categories.
That is a really good clue that there is in fact
a difference between the distributions.
Now, the boxplot doesn't show the average.
We can tell it to do that,
just like how we told
the pandas boxplot to show the average.
Let's set x, two species,
y two flipper length millimeters,
kind equals to box.
Show means equals true, POT show.
By default, the means is the green triangle.
We need to use the mean props argument,
which is a dictionary.
We can specify the marker to be a circle.
We can specify the marker face color to be white.
We can specify the marker edge,
color to be black.
This allows us to examine if
the average is changing across the groups.
But there's something really important here.
We are not considering
the standard error on this average.
We are just asking, what is the average value per group?
Visually is it different?
But Seaborn gives us a really handy function.
Seaborn allows us to visually identify if we can
trust if the average is different across groups.
Seaborn can include the confidence interval
or the standard error interval,
however you want to call it, around the average.
The confidence interval can
be included via the point plot.