Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/Wtx96/considering-missing-values

English
Let's now look at species, three unique values.
Fig, ax = plt.subplots.
We use the default fig size,
penguins.species.value_counts.plot,
kind = bar, ax=ax, plt.show.
Again, because the names may be difficult to read,
let's make it a horizontal bar chart.
We can, therefore, see the count is
highest for this species compared to the others.
Again, the height of the bar is literally
telling us which count is highest.
Up to this point, I haven't said
anything about missing values.
Let's see what happens if we would
apply value counts to allow the missings to be included.
Fig, ax = plt.subplots.
Here I'll actually make
the figure size a little shorter but wider.
Penguins.species.value_counts.plot,
kind = horizontal bar chart, ax=ax, plt.show.
This is the same thing. I forgot to dropna false.
Even though I'm not dropping the missings,
this figure is the same as what we had before.
It's just wider.
Now, why is it the same?
Penguins.isna.sum.
Species has zero missings.
But if you were paying close attention,
when I made the bar chart for sex,
we only had two unique values.
That's because by default,
missings are dropped from value counts.
Let's make the bar chart for the sex column again,
but this time, do not remove the missings.
Create the fig and axis object,
figsize 12, 4.
Penguins.sex.value_counts, dropna false,
plot, kind = horizontal bar chart, ax=ax, plt.show.
Now, why am I showing this?
Before when I was just making the figure as it was,
it seemed like, hey,
I have exactly two values,
which is what I saw before.
But by not first checking missings,
and not including that column or that argument dropna,
I'm technically not seeing the total counts.
I'm not seeing the complete picture.
The reason why it's so critical to
always first examine the data type,
the number of unique values,
and the number of missings is so
when you start making the figures,
if you don't see a missing count
for a variable that you know has missings,
you need to go back and double-check your arguments.
Because again, we're actually
not seeing the whole picture here.
We're just focused on those rows that have data,
not also examining those rows that don't have data.
Lastly, let's look at the island variable.
Fig, ax plt.subplots,
figsize 12, 4.
Penguins.island.value_counts.
Let's do dropna false,
plot, kind = horizontal bar chart, ax=ax, plt.show.
Three unique values.
We have no missings
because there were no missings for this variable.
Again, the length of the bar tells us which of
the categories appears least frequently versus which of
the categories appears most frequently in the dataset.
Counts, they may seem simple,
they may even seem a little boring,
but it's incredibly important to always
start this way examining
the count of a single categorical variable
from a dataset.