Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/2O8Fw/creating-histograms-with-pandas-and-seaborn

English
We need to focus on intervals.
Now, what do I mean by intervals?
To see it, let's call a simple method.
Let's call a Pandas method
that produces histograms for us.
I'm going to introduce the term and
then we will define it.
This simple method,
you take your data frame and you call hist,
and then plt.show,
using all default arguments.
By default, the hist method applied to
a data frame works for each numeric column.
Country and continent are not
included because they are not numerics.
Look at life expectancy,
we don't see a whole lot of bars at a count of one.
Instead, there are some intervals that have
higher count and other intervals
that have very low count.
Now, what do I mean by intervals?
Well, let's focus on one and only one column at first.
Even though the hist method
applied to the whole data frame,
even though this one method showed us potentially many,
but multiple histograms,
let's focus on a single continuous variable.
We will apply the hist method now to
a column in Pandas or a series rather than a data frame.
Since we're applying it to a series,
I will initialize or define the figure in axis objects,
just like we did when we were counting categoricals.
I start with the data frame,
then I identify the column,
and now I apply the method.
This method, I'll call hist.
Notice on tab completing the hist method.
This is a plot type, ax=ax plt.show.
This is the exact same kind of picture as we saw up here,
but now we have isolated it
by grabbing or selecting the column.
Do you see these stairs?
Each one of these stairs is a bin.
The bin is between a particular interval of the variable.
The height of the bin is the count or the number
of observations contained in that interval.
But if it's a difficult to see the interval itself,
let's make the corresponding figure in seaborn,
using the appropriate axes level function.
In seaborn, since it's an axis level function,
we need to define the figure and axis objects.
We need to specify what the function is.
The axis level function is sns.histplot.
All plots start with data,
so we will specify data = gap_df.
Then we will pick the column x
= lifeExp ax=ax plt.show.
Now, we can easily see the bins because by default,
seaborn colors the edge of the bin in
black and the fill the region color in blue.
But if you see me scroll up
between these two, they are not the same.
Look at the height on the vertical axis.
The tallest bins are around count of 300,
whereas in seaborn,
the tallest bins are just over 200.
To make these figures identical,
though Pandas by default uses 10 bins in the histogram.
Let's force seaborne to also use 10 bins.
So fig, ax = plt.subplots, sns.histplot,
data = gap d_f, x= lifeExp,
bins=10, ax= ax plt.show.
Notice, I'm setting the bins argument to 10.
Now, if I scroll up,
you can see this basically looks to be the same.
On the far left hand side, around 30,
we have the shortest bin at 80,
it's kind of somewhere in the middle.
The highest bins, however, are around 70.
It's exact same thing we see from the Pandas method.
But now, what's happening?
Behind the scenes, we have all of this data,
all of these rows, all these observations
of life expectancy.
Rather than showing the count per
unique value, instead,
the range from the minimum to
the maximum is cut or divided into small intervals.
Inside each interval, seaborn or
Pandas is counting the number
of observations in that interval.
The count is then showed as the height.
What we're doing is we're trying to find
the intervals that have the highest concentration.
Where do we see most of the values?
The more concentrated the value the observations are,
the higher the bars are.
Bars of similar height mean that
the observations are roughly
evenly spread across those bars.
Very short bars have very few observations,
and thus the data are
not concentrated in those intervals.
Therefore, histograms are a kind of bar chart,
but they are a bar chart
specific to numeric or continuous variables.
Because behind the scenes,
they must first bin or
divide the values into small intervals.
And then we count how many observations
are in each interval.