Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/XuH5l/creating-visually-appealing-bar-charts-with-seaborns-catplot

English
Changing the figure size requires the height, and
aspect arguments, so because we are not defining
the figure in axis objects, we need to use arguments
specific to the figure level function to control it,
so here, let's do the horizontal bar chart.
Again, kind equals count aspect to this will stretch it out,
make it wider, so if you want to make the figure wider,
change aspect, if you want to make the figure taller, change height,
Now, why do you want to use figure level versus axis level,
that will be made more clear when we discuss combinations,
But we can go ahead and look at the bar charts for
the other variables, Look at the bar charts for
the other variables in penguins,
SNS cat plot data equals penguins.
Let's use a horizontal bar chart here we'll do a vertical bar chart for
species kind equals count again, I'm not specifying
anything about the axis because it's handled by the figure
level function SNS cat plot data equals penguins.
X equals island kind equals count PlT show again it's
easy to read we get the label legends I don't have to
remember what's being PLO It's already telling me,
so pandas does not automatically label the legends or label the axes.
Seaborne does, so you get higher-quality figures,
they're easier to read, Gapminder counts,
I'm now going to use the figure level function again but
now the data is changing, It's going from penguins to gap df,
so the data argument is different.
Let's first look at continent kind equals count,
ELT show again, even though it's a vertical bar chart,
the bars are going up, the text is easy to read,
it's already horizontal, now let's look at
country SNS cap, what data equals gap data.
X equals country kind equals count,
Okay, it's not that clear, not that easy to read
that's all right Let's maybe first stretch
it out X equals country, kind equals count,
aspect equals five let's really make it wide.
All right, that didn't help either so
let's switch to a horizontal bar chart,
this is a common thing to do If you have very long category labels,
use a horizontal bar chart rather than a vertical bar chart,
but even though the text is made horizontal, I need to increase the height.
So let's go height of oops let's make it 15 ,there we go,
this is a little easier to read by default,
each of the bars are given different colors this is,
again, not necessary It just helps our eyes see some
separation just as talked about in the previous video.
We can see here that the heights are the same all countries have the same count,
The continents did not have the same count because some
continents have more countries than others and again, lastly,
SNS cap plot data equals gap df x equals year kind equals count,
The text is a little tough to read, so let's just stretch it out,
aspect two, make it a little wider, and now it's easy to read.
Again, the text is horizontal,
Hopefully you can see one of the other nice things of using the figure-level
functions I don't have to initialize or define the fig and
ax objects I don't have to figure out what names I should use for them.
If the common value names, the common names are appropriate,
I just get to call the function it makes it, I think, easier and
faster to work with, but the primary point, the graphics,
the figures all start with the data set, you are still picking one variable.
You are assigning it to either the horizontal, the x axis,
or the vertical, the y axis.
You must specify the kind of plot to make.