Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/vintH/creating-figures-and-subplots

English
Let's execute Step 1 and Step 2.
Step 1, as a reminder,
we initiate the figure, plt.figure.
But Step 2,
we create the subplot.
The subplot is made with another function from
the matplotlib.pyplot module, so plt.subplot.
Figure followed by subplot.
Let's run that cell.
Figure, subplot.
Now, when we run the cell,
we don't just get some weird set
of characters displayed to the screen,
we get a picture more aligned with
what you were probably anticipating or expecting to see.
There's a horizontal axis
that travels left to right on the screen,
which is usually called the x-axis,
and then there's a vertical axis
that travels up and down,
which is usually called the y-axis.
Now, before we move on to Step 3,
let's review these two steps again,
but this time show more of the arguments within Step 2.
Again, Step 1, initiate the figure,
plt.figure, Step 2, create the subplot.
plt.subplot. There are three main arguments
for the subplot,
the number of rows,
the number of columns,
and a plotting index.
Let me put in a comment here,
so number of rows,
number of columns, and a plot index or panel number.
Let's run it. There is one row of subplots,
one column of subplots,
and we are specifically looking at
plot index or panel number 1.
You might be wondering, why did I type
a one here rather than zero?
Well, remember, I started this video by saying,
Matplotlib is basically stolen from MATLAB,
and MATLAB is one-based index,
not zero-based index,
so the MATLAB style,
the stateful style literally
follows everything that MATLAB does,
so that's why it is a one rather than a zero.
Again, with Python,
a lot of things are really ports from
other environments because people like Python so much,
so sometimes the arguments
are not consistent with the rest of Python,
all depending on where they are stealing the stuff from.
But okay. We now have a figure,
we now have a subplot,
but I want to be even more refined.
Anytime you hear the term subplot,
I want you to really think of the axis,
the actual set of horizontal and vertical axes,
the x and y-axes in the figure.
Now, why am I trying to be very specific with that?
The reason is because there's a hierarchy or
levels between the various elements
of our figures or plots.
The supplemental readings for this week includes
a link to this tutorial page from Real Python.
Now, you don't have to read the entire website.
As you can see, there's a whole lot of topics here.
If you want to, you can,
and the website does
provide additional discussion points of a lot of
the functions that we will be seeing
throughout this class and in others.
I will show you how I prefer how to make the figures,
which isn't usually hint some of these approaches.
But anyway, this particular portion of this website is
very useful to help understand
the hierarchy of the Matplotlib object.
The figure that we were
creating is like the picture frame,
it's what holds or
hangs the entire picture onto the wall.
The axis, though, is contained within the figure,
and it's the axis or
the subplot that actually contains the data.
This is important because as you'll see in a little bit,
we can have multiple axes or
multiple subplots containing different data sets
within the overarching figure.
A figure, its old name was
the graphical device that
contains the axes that hold the data.
Again, if you need to review
this terminology of figure versus axes,
please take a look at
this image available on the supplemental readings,
and for even further detail of
the different aspects or
attributes of the plot and the axes,
just a little below it,
it has all the different terms.
If you ever need an additional review, please come here,
and this is linked to in
the supplemental readings for this week.
But all right. Let's now finally move to Step 3.
Let's move to Step 3 and populate data
within the axes contained inside the figure.
We're going to do something really, really simple,
we will show a simple sine wave as our data.