Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/CNgTY/customizing-subplots

English
We have a lot of control over
the subplots or axes within a figure.
Let's make a figure with
two rows and three columns of subplots.
Fig, ax, but now, just to be clear,
I'm going to make it plural axs.
Just to distinguish between our previous example.
The function calls the same plt.subplots,
but now I want to say I want two rows and three columns.
If you don't like how compressed everything is here,
we can change the figure size using the figsize argument.
So figsize is an argument to subplots because
it's controlling the overall size of
the picture frame that the subplots are displayed on.
By default, each subplot will show the axis tick marks,
the axis tick labels, the coordinate system.
But we can force each subplot to share axes.
You'll see why this is useful
here after I finish typing this,
two rows, three columns,
figsize, 12, 6,
sharex = true, sharey = true.
I should note, figsize,
I'm typing in The figure size as a tuple.
So it is contained within a tuple.
Running this line of code and getting the result.
The difference here is, you see how
we don't have the numbers printed.
Instead, the numbers on
the vertical scale are only shown on the left hand side,
and the numbers for the horizontal scale
are only shown on the lower line.
Essentially, we're streamlining the figure.
We're trying to make it easier to look at.
We're trying to just remove the clutter,
by default, sharex and sharey = false.
We can change that.
You can see sharex = false.
Now you see the labels across all of them.
If I make sharex true and sharey false,
you can see the verticals are now across all of them.
Sharing the axes, again,
makes the figure less cluttered, which can really help.
One more example just to
show how to interact with things here.
The axs object,
this is a NumPy array.
If we check its shape,
two rows and three columns,
we can slice the 2D NumPy array,
just like we slice any 2D NumPy array.
So to get any individual one,
I need its row and column positions.
Doing this allows me to access
the individual axis label or axis object.
Let's see how to do that within a for loop.
Use a nested for loop to iterate over
each subplot within the figure and display some text.
For i in range,
axs shape 0,
so over the rows.
For j in range axs shape 1,
so over the columns.
Access the axs ith row jth column location.
Now, I could plot,
but I'm going to use a different method,
this time text where at the 0.5,
0.5 position, I'm going to show as a string,
the tuple for the current row column position.
Notice nothing is displayed when
I ran this cell because again,
the actual object itself,
the actual figure is contained within the figure object.
Now, if you look closely,
this text, yes, it's a little small.
So let's go into the text method
and change the font size to something larger.
There we go. You can see
it gets printed here, so let's reset it.
Great. We reseted everything.
Now if we run it again, there we go.
The other thing too, it's actually placing this where
the left hand side is located at the 0.5, 0.5 position.
So let's adjust that using
a very strange argument called the ha argument,
where we specify how it's horizontally aligned.
I want it to be located adjusted at the center point.
So let's reinitialize the figure, redefine,
recreate each of the axes,
rerun it, and then show it.
Now, everything is centered.
I personally like to do all of this within one cell.
I don't like to break up defining
the figure and then adding everything.
Notice here, again, I didn't even
show it because I was calling the figure itself,
so let's put everything in a single cell,
fig, axs = plt.subplots,
two rows, three columns, figsize.
Here I'll make it a little shorter,
sharex true, sharey true.
Now we'll use the same nested for loop for i
in range axs shape 0,
for j in range axs shape 1.
Axs access the ith row, jth column,
text 0.5, 0.5,
showing a string of the ith row, jth column.
Make sure it's displayed in
the center and make the font large.
Now, if I hit "Enter",
I want to dedent plt show.
Now, everything is just in one cell,
and if I was dedenting,
so "Control left square
bracket" to get out of the for loops.
But this is the general way of
organizing our plots in matplotlib.
Although we can use that stateful approach,
you will almost never see me do that.
Instead, I use the object oriented approach
of defining the figure object,
defining the axes, and then calling
the appropriate methods for each of the axes objects.
So if you again, have wondered why
have I previously called fig,
ax before a figure is made,
it's to do these very steps.
Initiate the figure, define the axis,
call the function that populates
the data within each axes or subplot.