Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/0rzsr/exploring-categorical-continuous-variable-relationships-faceted-histograms-and

English
For those reasons, in seaborn you should
use facets to associate facets to represent
the categories of a second categorical
variable when showing the distribution as a histogram.
So instead of hue equals species,
we want to instead take our data,
identify our column of interest, and
then set the col column argument to the other
variable and then kind equals to his.
We now see separated by the secondary categorical or
by the secondary variable, separate subplots or facets.
It's now very easy for us to see the interval
associated with chinstrap as being in the middle
between the Adelie and the gen two species.
But now you might be saying, look,
I don't want to have to deal with these different subplots or facets.
I really, really want to have the three on top of each other in one figure.
That way it can really tell what's going on in the middle.
But there's one thing you need to note here.
Even though we don't have separate colors muddied on
top of each other, the y axis of this histogram,
this conditional or grouped histogram is still count.
Therefore, this middle facet or middle subplot for chinstrap.
Do you see how the height is lower?
Let's take a look at the value counts for the species.
Chinstrap has the fewest number of observations of the three
groups of the three categories.
So the fact that the middle histogram has a lower height
does not necessarily mean it's less important,
it does not necessarily mean it's less concentrated.
This is actually an artifact of the sample size per group.
The reason why I'm bringing this up is because when I first
discussed the histogram I mentioned we're looking for
bars that are very tall because those are intervals of high concentration and
bars that are shorter are representing less concentrated intervals.
We don't see as many observations there.
But now when we group by another variable,
we are studying how a categorical is related to this continuous variable.
The height of the bar does not necessarily represent
how concentrated the observations are.
The height of the bars are really just
representative of the sample size per category,
meaning we cannot use the bar height of the histogram alone.
We need to change how we represent concentration.
It is better to use the density to visualize
concentration rather than count.
I'm only going to just state that now.
Comp if 2130, the class dedicated to visualization
dives deep into just why you should not use count when
examining how the distribution changes across groups.
So this is something reserved for 2130.
Just due to time and to give you more practice before we get to that point.
Now, unfortunately,
seaborn is not very good at creating the appropriate kind of histogram.
In truth, this is much easier to do in R, and you will learn how to do that in R and
then see how to manage it in Seaborne in 2130.
But for now, we will instead in this class use the KDE plot, or
really the grouped or conditional KDE plot,
to study how the distribution varies across categories.
So instead of creating this histogram colored
by species or hue species SNS displot.
It's the same data set penguins,
same x variable flipper length millimeters,
the same variable that we are using to color hue equals species.
But now the kind is KDE PlT show.
The y axis again is labeled as density.
But look closely at this plot.
The chinstrap, the orange curve still has a lower total height than the other two.
Unfortunately, seaborne does not handle
the sample size correctly with grouped or
conditional KDE plots.
This is a very, very common mistake often made by python users.
Do not fall into this trap.
Seaborne doesn't actually know what it's doing here.
We need to tell it to operate correctly.
Essentially, what's happening is seaborn is getting fooled by sample size.
We need to remove the sample size effect.
To do that, we must include the common norm equal to false argument.
So this is really critical.
When you want to examine how the distribution changes across categories,
you cannot use the default seaborne operation.
You must change its default.
You start with the same data set,
you identify the same column,
you identify the same variable,
same column for coloring, but
now common norm equals false, kind equals KDE.