Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/0aLjD/exploring-continuous-variable-visualization-with-histograms-and-kde-in-seaborn

English
Now, in seaborn, besides using the axis
level hist plot function, we can also create
the histogram using the figure level function.
The bar chart figure level function was sns catplot.
The goal was to work with categorical variables.
But the goal for visualizing the distribution
of continuous variables is different
from counting categoricals.
Thus, the figure level function is different.
The figure level function is sns displot.
It's a distribution plot.
We want to know how distributed the values are,
where they are not concentrated versus where they are concentrated.
We want to know the shape, what's something that looks like it's in
the middle versus something in the extremes.
So the figure level approach,
sns displot data equals the data set, x equals the variable.
We must specify the kind of distribution plot, plt show, so kind equals hist.
But then we can specify any arguments we want, like to use 10 bins.
We have now created the same kind of plot, but again,
it looks different because this is the figure level versus the axis level.
But now what happens if we use fewer bins?
Sns displot, data equals the data set.
X equals the variable lifeExp.
But if we would kind equals hist.
But if we would now use bins equal to three.
Do you see how the total count is much higher per bin?
Fewer bins mean the intervals are much larger.
Larger intervals mean there's a lot more observations per bin.
The count per bin can now increase.
But if we use just three bins, it looks like, hey,
all the data is really on the right hand side.
We have lost the nuance of this kind of almost plateauing before increasing again.
What if we use many, many bins?
Sns displot, data equals gap df, x equals lifeExp,
kind equals to hist, bins equal to 201.
So now if I use 201 bins, the interval
within each bin is really, really tiny.
It's a really narrow, tiny interval.
The number or count per bin is now a lot smaller.
Although we can see every little nook and cranny.
That also means we see a lot of wiggliness.
The bins go up, they go down, they go up, they go down.
And so it may look like where a variable is
concentrated is changing very rapidly.
But really what we're looking for,
the histogram, we want just general or
rough ideas about how the concentration is distributed.
And so for those reasons,
it's better to use a small to moderate number of bins.
I'm personally a big fan of 21.
Kind equals to hist, bins equal to 21, the exact number of bins,
though, it does depend on the total sample size,
the number of unique, and the number of unique values.
The larger the sample size you have,
the more rows in your data frame, the more bins you can use.
The fewer rows, the smaller the number of bins you should use.
Often the default number is pretty good, but if you're still not sure,
there is an alternative kind of way of visualizing the distribution.
In addition to the histogram,
you could use the kernel density estimate or KDE plot.
The figure level function approach to do this is displot data equals your data set.
X equals your variable, which in our case is lifeExp.
But instead of kind equals hist, it's kind equals KDE.
Now, there's a lot of stuff that actually has to happen in order to create
this graph.
The first hint about it is the y-axis is no longer count, it's density.
Density is kind of like the physical density,
it represents where things are concentrated.
The higher the value of density, the more concentrated.
The lower the value of density, the less concentrated.
It's trying to give you a smooth idea of just how distributed the variable is,
where it's roughly uniformly distributed
versus where it's concentrated versus not concentrated.
I personally think it's quite helpful to
combine the histogram with the default number of bins with the KDE.
So sns displot, data equals your data set.
X equals to variable, kind equals to hist,
KDE equals true, plt show.
In comp if 2130, we discuss histogram versus KDE in
much more detail, give much more understanding
of what's going on with the KDE versus the histogram.
But for now, our purposes, we want to know where the values are concentrated.
So high count, high bins, tall bins,
high KDE density versus where they are not concentrated,
low count, low bins, low KDE density.
Combining the two and overlaying them gives us an idea of,
hey, what's the general shape?
And how does that general shape compare to the low counts?