Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/lc3LG/exploring-distributional-shapes-of-continuous-variables

English
This is just one of the variables, though.
When we made that first call,
and we saw the subplots,
we had other shapes of distributions,
for example, let's look at the pop variable.
Look at the distributions of
the other continuous variables in gap_df.
Sns.displot.
I'll make each of these with a figure
level functions, gap_df,
now x = pop,
kind = hist,
and let's include the kde.
This distribution is tough to look at.
For the counts of the bins,
we see these really huge spike,
then there's this long tail to the right.
The kde is showing us something similar
where the density is highest on the left,
and then there's this long trailing tail to the right.
The purpose of showing this is for you to
see that the distributional shape,
the way the bins are organized,
the way the kde line is drawn,
they are not always the same.
You're not always going to get things that look like
nice bell curves or flat uniform distributions.
You might have something that looks roughly
nice or you might have
a distribution where a lot of
the observations are bunched together at one end,
and then there's this very long tail
that gives you extreme values.
The fact that we have this very long tail
means the distribution is not symmetric.
There's a high concentration on one side,
and then this very low,
but yet extreme set of values on another side.
Asymmetry is something that's quite common.
It may not appear as extreme though as
what we're seeing with this population variable,
for example, gdpPercap,
kind = hist, kde = True.
It is also asymmetric
where a lot of the values are on the far left,
and then there's this tail to the right.
But it's asymmetry or
skewness is not as extreme as what we saw above.
The purpose of data exploration is for us to
just identify variables that
have nice looking distributions versus those with
definitely weird behavior with
these very long tails and
extremes and those that have this asymmetry,
but maybe not as quite extreme.
Let's wrap this up by
examining a few variables from penguins.
Penguins.dtypes, there were four floats.
All of those floats have
at least double digit unique values,
so they should be treated as continuous.
Let's first focus on the flipper lane.
Again, I want to know how this variable is distributed.
Let's create its distribution plot
with Sebornpigure level function displot.
I'm working with a different dataset,
so my data is changing.
The data argument is now penguins.
I must now identify the one column,
the marginal distribution to make.
One column ignoring everything else.
Kind = hist,
and let's include in the kde = True.
The histogram is revealing to
us there's this interval of high count on one side,
another interval of higher count on the other,
and in between those two, the count decreases.
The kde point agrees with it.
Where there is this high concentration,
it decreases, and then another concentration.
The data or this variable's distribution
looks like a mountain range,
where we have one peak to
the left and another peak to the right.
This is showing us the variables,
its values can be clustered at different locations.
There's a cluster around 190,
and there's another cluster around 215.
This example is, therefore,
showing you several representative shapes.
You could have data that is uniform,
you could have data that have really long extremes,
and you can have data that have
different clusters where there's high concentration,
and then a low concentration region in between them.
Again, the purpose of data exploration
is for us to just find out what's there.
Let's just do one more for penguins,
even though there's a total of four,
but penguins is the data set, x.
Let's now do bill_depth,
mm, kind = hist,
kde = True, pot = True.
Again, we have another distribution that this time,
it doesn't look so crazy.
We don't have these really long tails one way or another.
It also doesn't seem to have one cluster next to another.
The data are all just located somewhat in the center.
Again, the purpose of this,
a few possible shapes you may find,
two different ways to visualize those shapes,
the histogram with the bins,
the kde with the smooth curve.