Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/YPpAU/exploring-the-categorical-variables-of-the-penguins-dataset

English
Let's now consider the last variable
for counting in gap minder.
Remember, it was mentioned that the year variable,
even though it's an integer has only 12 unique values.
Let's go ahead and count.
Let's count the number of rows per year value,
and visualize as if it is categorical.
Just because there are only 12.
The figure is created following the same process.
Fig, ax plt subplots.
Here, let's use a fig size of 12 and four.
The figure itself, gap df.year value
counts plot kind equals bar ax equals ax plt show.
Now, if you don't like that the year is tilted,
let's use a horizontal bar chart.
We can now see each individual year.
Again, just as with country,
they all look to be the same length,
the same number of rows.
So gap df year value counts.
One hundred and forty two for counts appears 12 times.
This very simple set of visualizations is
actually revealing something really
critical about this dataset.
Gap df has 1704 rows.
We have just learned
each country has 12 rows in the dataset.
We have also learned that each year has
142 rows in the dataset.
One hundred and forty two times 12 is 1704.
We have learned one row in gap df is therefore,
a single country within a single year.
If we look at the actual raw data,
that's what we can see.
This country, in a year, has these attributes.
We have another example that we can work with.
The penguins dataset.
Penguins dtypes.
As discussed in the previous video, species,
island and sex are the
only three categorical variables here.
Let's start the same way by
examining the number of unique sex.
There are two values, so let's start there.
Again, we could just do penguins sex value counts.
We could normalize the counts to get the proportions.
But rather than looking at the raw counts,
again, let's visualize with a bar chart.
Fig, ax plt subplots.
I use the default this time, penguins.
Access or identify the data, identify the column,
apply the count plot,
kind equals bar, ax equals ax, plt show.
Again, you must identify the dataset,
identify the variable we're interested in,
count it, specify the kind of plot,
and where we are plotting it.
How did I know to use this variable?
Because I am choosing to isolate or
focus on this one and only one variable.
This is a marginal count plot, a marginal chart.
We're ignoring all other variables.
If you don't like that, it's a vertical because
the words are difficult to read,
you can make it horizontal.
Again, although we can see it's roughly 50/50 split,
I like the bar chart because,
the bars look very similar in length.
It's roughly equally split between them.
If we want the proportion,
we can create that as well.
Penguins identify the variable, value counts,
normalize true, plot kind equals barh,
ax equals ax, plt show.
Now we get that they're both roughly 50%.