Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/rh6Kq/importing-the-gapminder-and-penguins-datasets

English
Hello, everyone. In this video,
we're going to quickly introduce
the idea of picking the kind
of plot that you will use in visualization.
As you can see, I already have
a Jupyter session opened
up in the directory for this week.
If you don't have Jupyter open,
please pause the recording and open and get it launched.
Once you have done that,
what you do then hit New and
launch a new Python 3 Jupyter notebook.
Go to set up my Jupyter notebook name,
week_06_plot_types, and then
put in my header information,
CMPINF 2100 Week 06.
What type of plot should I use?
This is a very common question
but it is often the wrong question to ask,
which you will pretty much never hear anybody say.
But whenever you start considering what kinds of
plots you should be using
when you visualize and explore data,
what I want to stress here is that's
not your first question that you should ask yourself.
Just why that is, we'll see here in a few minutes.
But okay, so let's import modules because we know that
we have to import modules before we can do anything.
As with the last few weeks,
you will import Numpy as NP.
You will import Pandas as PD.
As discussed in the previous recording,
you will also import matplotlip.pyplot as PLT.
But now in this recording,
you must also import one additional module,
import Seaborn as SNS.
As you'll see throughout the semester,
these are the big four that we will work with,
and we'll not be discussing Seaborn,
though in depth in this recording we need it
though before we can do anything for this.
But please import in the following four.
The reason why we're starting out this
way is because before you
can ask yourself what kind of
plot that you should be using,
you have to first consider what
your data are that you were
working with so let's read in some data.
We will use two different data sets this week.
The first is the Gapminder data.
The second is the Palmer Penguins data set.
Both of these data sets are famous.
They are available in multiple different locations.
They are examining completely
different kinds of applications.
To get the Gapminder data set,
you can go to Canvas.
On Canvas in the Week 6 Module
if you click on data for this week.
I have a link to the exact same GitHub repository.
Webpage, if you click on it this is the raw data.
It comes from the Pandas for everyone.
Textbook. We read in this data
set last week when we were learning
how to read in data into Pandas.
I want you to copy that link.
Now go back into Jupyter.
Define a variable.
I'll name it gap_url,
and now paste that URL as a string.
I'm putting quotes around that web address.
Let's now read in
the Gapminder data set, gap_df=pd.read_csv.
The primary argument is the path.
The next argument we need is SEP,
because as we discussed last time or last week,
the file is tab-separated rather than comma-separated,
so we have to change the read CSV's separator.
The.info method gives us how many rows,
how many columns, the names of the columns,
the data type for the columns,
the number of non-missing for the columns,
and a high-level summary,
how many variables columns per data type.
The Penguins data set are read in
or loaded from the Seaborn module.
Go to assign the result to the Penguins object, SNS.
We will get this dataset from a function from Seaborn
so sns.load_d hit tab,
and you should tab complete load_dataset type penguins
as a string all lower case.
If we then apply the.info method,
we again see a number of rows, number of columns,
the names of all the columns,
the data types for the columns,
the number of non-misses,
and the summary for the number of columns per data type.