Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/4OWZH/introduction-to-the-seaborn-library

English
Hello, everyone. In this video,
we're going to learn how to make bar charts with seaborn.
As you can see, I already have Jupyter opened
up to this week's directory.
If you don't have it, please pause
the recording and do so.
Once you're back, I want you to launch
a new Jupyter notebook for this example.
I'm going to name this notebook,
week_06_seaborn, S-E-A-B-O-R-N bar_charts.
Now, I'll set up
my header information CMPINF 2100 week 06.
Creating bar charts with seaborn.
We will again use mapplotlib
to help organize the layout of the figure.
But this time, the bar charts will be
created with the seaborn statistical plotting module.
This module displays
the graphics differently than Pandas.
But seaborn really likes to work with Panda's dataframes.
We therefore need all modules
that we have worked with this semester.
When we import the modules,
import NumPy is np,
import Pandas as pd,
import mapplotlib.pyplot as plt.
Lastly, import seaborn as sns.
My personal style is,
I have the big 3 NumPy, Pandas,
mapplotlib, and then a space followed by seaborn.
Seaborn is a module.
It specifically focused on
statistical data visualization.
It helps make some really nice looking graphics
to allow you
to communicate and ultimately interpret your datasets.
It is my preferred Python visualization library
for data science applications.
It is built on top of mapplotlib,
but it provides a streamlined interface
that's easier to work with than
dealing with mapplotlib directly,
and I think the resulting figures are much
nicer than those coming from Pandas.
It needs Pandas to organize the data,
and since Pandas is built on top of NumPy,
that's why we need all of the modules so far.
Now, as with the previous recording,
let's read in the data.
We will use the gap minder data set again.
To get it, again,
please go to Canvas,
to the data for this week.
Click on the page and here's the link.
I already have it set up, so I can just copy it.
But please pause the recording and go to
Canvas. This already opened.
Once you have done so,
come back and define a variable,
gap_URL, where you paste the link.
gap_df, pd_read_csv,
gap_url, separator, change it to tab separator.
The info method, again,
confirming the data have been read in.
Lastly, read in the penguins dataset.
Penguins comes from sns.load_dataset,
retype penguins as a string, penguins.info.
We have everything loaded in.
The previous recording,
that showed how to make bar charts with Pandas
started with the gap minder data.
But let's begin with penguins in this example.
We'll flip around the ordering this time.
Let's put it in here.
Counts for penguins.
As a reminder, penguins, D types,
species in island and sex
and the four floats
all have such large number of unique values,
we will not treat them as categorical.
Now, seaborn works differently than plotting in Pandas.
Seaborn divides functions into two main categories.
Seaborn has figure level functions
and axes level functions.
Axes level functions create specific kinds of plots.
Figure level functions are
what I like to call goal oriented.
Let's begin with axes level,
so we can practice using specific kinds of plots.
Now, this is where it gets a little confusing.
Seaborn has many different names
for different kinds of plots.
It has a bar plot.
I like to visualize bar charts
in seaborn using then sns.countplot function.
We are therefore counting the values and plotting.
Count plot.
Seaborn axes level functions
are built on top of mapplotlib,
and so we need to initialize,
or define the figure and axes objects.
Axes level functions need you
to define the figure and axes objects.