Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/xZqvO/introduction-to-matplotlib-basics-and-programming-styles-in-jupyter-notebook

English
Hello everyone.
In this video we will cover the fundamentals of Matplotlib.
As you can see, I already have a Jupyter session opened up,
I am inside a directory for this week.
If you don't have Jupyter launched, please pause the video and do so now.
And once you are back in the correct directory,
please launch a new Jupyter Notebook.
I'm going to change the name of this Jupyter Notebook
to week_06_matplotlib_intro.
Now I'll put in my header information CMPINF
2100 Week 06 this is an introduction to Matplotlib.
Or as I like to think about it,
we will finally learn why do I keep typing 'fig,
ax = plt.subplots()' whenever
we plot something with Matplotlib.
So that's what you will finally learn about in this video.
Why is this strange looking cryptic set of code provided
anytime we have made figures up to this point.
Let's import our modules.
Now, as we have done in the last two weeks,
we import numpy as np, we also import pandas as pd.
But from now on, in pretty much any Jupyter Notebook that we work in,
we will also import matplotlib.pyplot as plt.
We are therefore importing three modules,
numpy, pandas, and matplotlib.
But if you look closely here, it's not matplotlib by itself,
it's matplotlib.pyplot.
So sometimes you will hear this module described as the pyplot module,
which is really a sub module within matplotlib.
The alias is plt, plt as a shortcut for plot.
Let's run this cell.
Now, what you will learn about in this recording is that,
let's say ## Overview, matplotlib has 2
main styles of programming associated with it.
The first or classic is the STATEFUL
style which is based on MATLAB.
If you have never heard of MATLAB,
it is a programming language environment created by the MathWorks Corporation.
It is very commonly used in engineering, stands for
Matrix Lab, it's all about matrix algebra,
matrix multiplication, programming involving matrices.
Matplotlib basically steals MATLAB's plotting capability,
there's no qualms about it, that's what it is.
So if you have ever made a plot in Python using Matplotlib before.
Or have seen a blog where people make plots in Matplotlib and
they talk about how great it is, really what they're saying is I have
stolen this from MATLAB and that's really what happened.
The second approach is the OBJECT ORIENTED STYLE approach.
The resulting figure, again is stolen straight up from MATLAB,
but the way we create that figure is quite different.
Let's begin with the Stateful or MATLAB style.
There are four primary steps for creating the figure.
*step 1, you need to initiate the figure *step 2,
you need to specify the subplot that contains the data,
*step 3, you need to populate the data within the plot,
which is commonly called (plot the data).
Lastly, *step 4, you need to show the figure.
Some of these steps may seem rather obvious because after all,
the whole reason of making the figure is to plot the data.
But you will see that populating the data within the figure is a very
particular step in the entire process of creating the overall graphic.
Let's begin with step 1 and
work through each step one at a time, okay?
So ### step 1, initiate the figure.
There is a function to create or
initiate the figure in Matplotlib using the Stateful or
MATLAB style approach, it's plt.figure().
It is a function, that's why we have parentheses.
When you run this line of code,
some weird looking things get output to the screen.
It says a figure was made with some size.
There's a certain number of pixels that make up that figure.
But if we check the environment,
Using the whos magic command, you will see we only
have the three modules that we have imported,
meaning creating the figure does not make an object
necessarily for us associated with that figure.
I'll return to this point in a minute, but let's continue our journey.