Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/kbPEw/key-considerations-for-plot-selection

English
We now have two datasets.
Again, the first question is,
what is the data that you're working with?
Now, introduction to visualization.
When deciding the type of plot you should use,
you must ask yourself the following questions.
First, do I have the data? That's step one.
Next, what data types am I working with?
Next, what are the number
of unique values for the variables?
Lastly, what are my goals?
Of these four steps,
it's really what are my goals that actually get into
what people usually refer
to as what type of plot should I use?
Because there are specific plots for different purposes.
But what you will learn in
this course is that the type of plot
is mostly determined by the data type,
the number of unique values,
and whether you want to examine
individual variables or individual variable
versus a relationship between multiple variables.
Those are the three primary things that you need
to consider before you
decide what type of plot you should use.
Really, what I'm trying to reinforce with
in this video is to
explicitly tell you the reason why we spent so much time
the last few weeks on how do we find out the data types?
How do we find out the number of
unique values for all of
the columns in our Pandas DataFrames?
How do we use attributes?
How do we use methods?
It's because knowing the data type
is the Number 1 driver for the plot you'll use.
Then you will need to consider
how many unique values there are as a qualifier.
Lastly, you ask yourself,
am I working with an individual variable or am I
considering the relationship between multiple variables?
Let's now break this down further.
The influence of the data type.
There are two main data types
we need to concern ourselves with.
First, is the variable categorical or strings,
letters, words, or just simply non-numeric values?
Versus, do we have continuous variables,
continuous integers, floats,
or in general terms, numeric values?
Are there certain nuances between?
For more fine grain to tail.
Absolutely. But your primary consideration is,
am I working with something that's
non-numeric or am I
working with a variable that is numeric?
The most basic type of plot for
non-numeric variables is the bar chart.
You should always start with creating bar charts.
Why? Because the bar chart shows
the count for the number of rows per unique value.
The count will let you
examine the most frequent categories,
the least frequent categories, the shape.
Are there clustering patterns?
Are there values that are super infrequent and
just a handful of the categories dominate counts?
As simple as it sounds is where you should always start.
Unfortunately, they are forgotten about far too often,
but just starting with counts will save
you in many situations.
The analog for counts with
continuous variables or
numeric variables are distributions.
The fundamental type of
distribution plot is the histogram.
We want to know how a continuous variable is distributed.
We want to know what values are common,
what values are frequent,
what intervals are not common or infrequent.
We want to know common values.
We want to know if there's a strange set
of long tails or extreme values.
We want to know where the observations
are clustered around.
The histogram is how we can answer those questions.
There is an important qualifier,
though, and that is
the influence of the number of unique values.
Continuous variables or numeric variables with
few unique values can be
explored as if they are categorical variables.
For example, the number of cylinders in a car.
You will have 4, 6,
and 8 as common values for the number of cylinders.
Even though these are integer numbers
or numbers, your exploration,
your visualizations can treat them as if they are
categorical because it really will simplify your figures.
They're easier to communicate,
interpret, and discuss and describe.
Just because you treat
them categorical for visualization,
does not mean you would treat them
categorical for other things,
but it is a useful thing to consider.
Then lastly, for this recording,
individual versus relationships.
A plot focused on an individual variable
is commonly called a marginal plot.
You will often hear me use this term.
Marginal is a statistics term.
Marginal means we are ignoring every other variable.
We are focused on a single variable by itself.
A marginal histogram is a plot
of the distribution of
a single continuous numeric variable.
A marginal bar charge is at of
the counts of the categories or a categorical variable.
Relationship plots, examine how
two or more variables change or vary together.
We will discuss relationships in more detail later.
This week, we will focus mostly on marginal plots.
Tough we will get into a certain,
very important type of relationship plot at
the end of the recordings for this week.