Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/IT63n/key-material-for-module-6

English
Hello everyone.
Welcome to the 6th week of the semester.
The first five weeks we've been going through fundamentals of programming for
data analysis.
We've learned about essential data types in Python,
like the list in the dictionary.
We've learned how to iterate using for loops and comprehensions,
and we've learned about attributes and
methods that can be applied to objects based on their data type.
We've also learned how we can use more advanced data types like
NumPy arrays and Pandas data frames to organize data.
We've learned about their attributes and methods, and we've learned
how to summarize data within those data types by applying functions and methods.
Our running major example through the first five weeks in terms
of how we can use programming for important statistical questions.
Was using methods and functions to calculate the mean and
examining how confident we are in the mean,
how much variation there is in the mean by calculating the standard error.
We are going to be using all of those programming skills and
all of those important concepts to now really start exploring data.
In my view, this is where we actually start the kind of stuff you
are hoping to learn for the semester.
But we had to lay the foundation of the programming before we could really
get here.
Exploratory data analysis, or EDA, is a critical step in all data analysis.
Big data, data analytics, data science, machine learning, whatever
buzzword you want to call it, EDA is a critical step in all of those projects.
And a core component of exploring data is to do so visually.
A picture is worth a thousand words, that's true outside of
data analysis, and it's very true in data analysis.
In the previous week, we saw how to generate essentially tables
of important summary statistics, like counts, averages.
We saw how to use split apply,
combine to calculate summary statistics across groups.
But we were only just displaying the results as numbers and text in tables.
This week you will learn how to display those important pieces
of information within plots, graphics, charts.
You will do so visually.
These are much easier to communicate because quite honestly,
nobody reads tables.
I personally find it hilarious that major journals,
major conferences will have all of these tables in the papers and presentations.
And everybody pretends that people read those tables, nobody does.
Nobody does, I don't care what anybody says, they're all lying.
But if you put in a well created chart, you will get people
figuring out by reading visually what's happening.
They will learn what's going on.
Nobody's going to read your table, but people will look at your plot and
your chart.
That's why it's so critical to use visual analysis when exploring data.
There were really three main areas for this week.
Although the previous weeks were about programming fundamentals,
we still have some essential programming
items we have to continue to unravel as we move forward.
The first area for this week is how do you actually create
a figure object using Matplotlib?
There have been a few times where in the lectures and
in the homeworks where I have told you, you will now import matplotlib,
you will finally learn what's going on with Matplotlib this week.
Then you will learn how to visually explore one variable.
And the week wraps up by introducing how to start exploring visually two variables.
Now in more detail by learning how to create a figure object with Matplotlib,
you will finally learn what the fig,ax=plt.subplots function means.
Because this is a very confusing line of code at first, it is essential for
understanding where we will contain everything for the figure and
where we will contain the data to show within that figure.
That's really the first major area.
The second area visually exploring one variable,
you will work with two fundamental kinds of figures.
Bar charts, which count the number of rows for
each category for a categorical variable.
Last week we were really using value counts.
Now we will be using bar charts to visually show the counts for
categorical variables.
Second, histograms, we cannot use bar charts for continuous variables.
This week motivates why that is the case and you will learn how to
visualize where continuous variables are concentrated where they
are not concentrated via histograms and a couple of its cousins.
The week wraps up.
By then, considering the relationship between two variables.
You will learn how to count the combinations between two categorical
variables and visually show that using bar charts and heat maps.
Then you will be introduced to visually exploring the relationship between
a categorical and continuous variable.
We will not cover all of the plot types for this relationship type.
This week we are starting it.
You will learn how to visually examine if the distribution shape changes for
the continuous variable across the categories.
You will learn how to examine if the summary statistics of
the continuous variable change across the categories.
And lastly, you will learn how to show if we are confident that
the average changes across the categories.
All three of these questions examine the relationship between a continuous and
categorical variable, but it does so from a different perspective.
There are three different kinds of plots that we use to
communicate the answers to these three different questions.
Even though they are fundamentally about the relationship
between a categorical and continuous variable.
If you're not sure why I'm talking about these different types
of figures in terms of categorical and continuous variables.
There is a recording that discusses how do we go about choosing the plot type.
What you will learn in that video is the number one driving mechanism for
the kind of plot you will use is the data type of the variable.
That's why it is so critical that we know about our data types.
That's all for this video.
Good luck this week.
This is where I think this semester really starts to get fun,
because I really like exploratory data analysis.
I find it to be very fun.
I find it to be very rewarding because you will often be very
surprised by what you find when you start exploring your data.
And sometimes those surprises are the most important things that you will learn
when you go through a data analysis project.