Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/HQdNa/limitations-and-figure-level-functions

English
The fact that we have a blue bar versus an orange bar,
it's actually not necessary.
Seaborn is just doing this to
make it distinguish between the two categories,
but we get their names.
We have the one category on the left,
the other category on the right.
The fact that the colors are different for the bars,
it's just an added touch,
but it's not completely totally necessary.
One thing about this chart, though,
if we examine the individual variable
where we drop the NA false for value counts,
as we discussed in the previous recording
of using Pandas,
there are missing values for this column.
We can include the missings
in Pandas because of dropna is false.
But unfortunately, countplot does not have
a simple single argument to
allow us to easily show the missings,
so this is one critical flaw,
in my opinion, about Seaborn's countplot.
We would have to manually modify
the column to allow it to show the missings,
which I think is in fact a big negative.
I do like the look of the bar chart from countplot,
but it is, in fact,
not entirely correct because
the missings are not included.
If we want to show a horizontal bar chart in Seaborn,
we must assign the variable to the y argument.
Let's see that, fig,
ax = plt.subplots,
we'll use the default size, sns.countplot,
everything starts with the dataset,
penguins, but now instead of saying x equals,
let's say y equals,
then ax = ax,
plt.show We now have
the horizontal bar chart where
the category labels are horizontal.
Again, the length of the bar is now the count,
and we get the labeling of the horizontal axis correctly.
Countplot is an axis-level function.
But we can create the same figure
using the figure-level function instead.
We are working with categorical variables,
and so the corresponding figure-level
function is sns.catplot.
Figure-level functions are goal-oriented,
so our goal right now is to study categorical variables.
The cat.plot figure level
function requires that we specify the kind of plot.
Now, rather than using countplot,
I'm going to type sns.catplot.
All figures start with data,
so data is set to our data frame.
The variable I want to plot is assigned to,
in this case, the x-axis.
What kind of plot is it? I am counting.
Now, what's really important here is,
we do not need to define the figure and
axis objects when working
with figure-level functions in Seaborn.
The figure-level function will
create the figure in axis objects for us.
We do still need to show the result.
The look is a little different,
we don't have the complete bounding box,
it's a little more streamlined.
Catplot it knows to count because kind equals count.
This is a vertical bar chart.
We could also make
a horizontal bar chart
by assigning the variable of
interest to the y argument of catplot.
One thing I want to really stress here is, again,
everything starts with the dataset,
so this is my zeroth argument,
but you should always name it.
Data equals the data frame,
don't just place the penguins,
the data frame, as the zeroth position,
you should name it, data equals penguins.