Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/PMJ1B/plotting-in-multiple-subplots

English
One more final review with this.
Why am I making the big deal about the figure versus subplot or axis?
Because we can have multiple subplots associated with a single figure,
and this is where graphing becomes quite powerful.
Let's initiate a single figure that has two subplots.
One shows the sine wave and another shows a cosine wave.
Again, initiate the figure, plt.figure.
But now, define two subplots contained
in this figure, plt.subplot.
And now those three arguments are really critical, (2, 1, 1).
I'm making a figure that has two rows in one column of subplots.
I'm first going to modify the first subplot,
plt.plot, so plot.plot, let's make the sine wave again.
I'm not going to run the figure just yet, because instead, or
run this code just yet.
Instead, I'm now going to define the second
subplot within the figure, plt.subplot.
We're still working with two rows and one column, but now I'm specifying two.
Our previous set of code was associated
with the one panel, or the one subplot,
but now I'm going to impact or
modify the second subplot,
plt.plot( np.cos for cosine,
use the rest the same, lastly, plt.show.
Now, if you're not used to sines and cosines,
a sine of 0 is equal to 0, and the cosine of 0 is equal to 1.
So even though both of these plots are cyclical or sinusoidal,
they have different values displayed on the plot.
And I'm trying to illustrate that by drawing these reference lines for
you here to show that the data being displayed are in fact different.
Let's see this one more time.
Examine this again, but
only populate data on the second subplot.
plt.figure, plt.subplot (2,1,1,1),
going to do nothing, plt.subplot (2, 1, 2),
plt.plot np.cosine np linspace (0,
10, 100) plt.show.
The first panel or the first subplot, or the first axes,
I didn't call plot, I didn't populate it with data,
but I did populate the second one.
And again, this might be confusing from
the concept of Python would say the 0th plot and the one plot.
But remember, Matplotlib is all stolen from MATLAB, so
we get to talk in terms of 1 and 2.
We are not limited, though, to just two rows and one column.
We could instead use one row and two columns of subplots.
Initiate the figure plt.subplot one row,
two columns, plot axis 1, plt,plot.
We'll go back to showing the sine wave.
On the second subplot, which again is row 1,
column 2, subplot 2, now show the cosine.
Plt.show.
Now, instead of having the two subplots stacked on top of each other,
you can see they are located left to right or horizontally next to each other.
Just save a little time here.
I'm going to now copy, which I don't typically like to do, but
I'm going to copy the code in this cell, insert a new cell below.
And I'm doing this because I want to highlight.
We can control the exact axes or
subplot the data are populated to.
For example, maybe I'm going to have one row and
five columns, one row and five columns.
If I run this notice, I get two plots side by side, or
two subplots side by side, but the picture looks very different.
That's because the figure is assuming we
are creating five subplots because we literally told it,
one row, five columns.
To make that point even more clear, if I put this back, one row,
five columns, one row, five columns, but now populate the sine
wave on the one panel, but populate the cosine on the five panel.
We have now changed the location of that subplot,
because again, behind the scenes,
it was told we're making five subplots in one row in five columns.
Which of these panels or subplots are we accessing?
That's what the two argument, or
using the MATLAB idea, the three argument is all about.