Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/XIZB1/plotting-a-sine-wave

English
To make the sine wave,
we will start with the np linspace function.
Remember in space creates
a 1D array from a starting point to an ending point,
and this ending point is inclusive,
and we need to specify a desired number of elements.
Np linspace 0, 10,
100, start at zero,
end at 10 inclusive,
and provide 100 evenly spaced points
between those numbers.
Again, just to confirm it,.shape, there are 100.
But the actual data that I want to
show is not zero through 10,
but rather the sine wave.
A sine wave is a repeating cyclic pattern.
Here, I just have a 1D numpy array,
and I will provide this 1D numpy array
to a function in matplotlib to populate some data.
Let's go ahead and do that now.
Plt figure, plt subplot,
1, 1, 1,
and now, finally, step 3.
Step 3 populate data within
the axes contained in a figure.
Plt, and the most basic plotting function is plot,
and then you provide the data.
I'm just going to retype what we did above.
Looked closely at the syntax.
It looks really strange.
Plt.plot.
It kind of looks like plot plot, but it's plt.plot.
You run the line of code,
we get the weird set of text output.
We get the same figure.
We see the horizontal and vertical axes.
But now, the axes are specific to our actual set of data.
By default, giving it one object,
one array, those values are displayed on the y-axis,
the vertical axis, and
the x-axis corresponds to the element ID,
the element position within the array.
Remember, I said I wanted 100 points,
so there's 100 points here.
This is 0.1, element 1,
0.2, element 2,
0.3, element 3,
or in real Python terms,
the zero's point, the one point,
the two point, the three point, so on and so forth.
Now, when you do this,
do you see this weird text that's getting displayed?
That's because it's telling us it is showing us objects,
showing us the chart or the plot
associated with this very particular object.
But the last step showing the plot,
removes the weird text that gets displayed to the screen.
Let's go through all four steps again.
Remember, we initiate the figure,
we define the subplots,
we populate the plot with data,
lastly, we show the plot,
and the function is literally plt.show.
Now, we only see
the rendered plot displayed to the screen.
However, if we check the environment, again,
all we have are
the three modules that we are working with.
There is some kind of object that is present.
It's made when the figures initialized,
an axis is created when the subplot is defined,
but we don't actually see it in memory.
This is where the odd MATLAB
style workflow comes into play.
Because behind the scenes,
there are really hidden objects,
and we can access them with the plt.gcf function,
which stands for get current figure.
There is a figure object hidden behind the scenes.
We don't have a variable name for it,
but we can get the current figure with this function.
Likewise, we can get the current axis with plt gca.
You will never see me use these functions,
but I just wanted to make you aware that,
there is in fact a hidden object made behind
the scenes that is initialized and
then modified by this workflow of,
Initiate the figure, create the subplots or the axes,
populate the data, and then show it.
We just don't have a variable for it.
It's hidden behind the scenes.