Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/BxUZC/plot-selection-based-on-categorical-or-continuous-values

English
>> But so again, to highlight the three major questions you should ask yourself
when you are visually exploring data.
What are my data types?
How many unique values are there per variable?
Do I want to focus on individual variables versus relationships?
Now, as a spoiler, you will be doing individual plots,
individual variable or marginal plots followed by relationships.
So at the end you will do all of this.
You should never skip out in visually exploring data, but I want to just
highlight when you are considering the kind of plot you should use.
These are the three most basic and
fundamental questions you should ask yourself.
So let's now consider very quickly the two data sets that we have right here.
Examples, start with the gap
minder data, gap_df_dtypes.
We will begin by counting country continent.
Those are the two object variables.
They will clearly be counted with bar charts.
Non numerics are country and continent.
We will count their categories with bar charts.
But we also need to ask ourselves,
what are the number of unique values per variable?
Life expectancy, population, GDP per cap,
these are numeric columns and they have thousands of values.
They're continuous, but look at year.
Year is an integer, a number, but there are only twelve unique values.
The year column only has 12 unique values in gap_df.
Thus, we may want to visually
explore year as if it is categorical
to simplify the figures.
So we can use plots intended for
categorical variables when we have
relatively small number of unique values.
Usually, my cutoff is seven.
Usually, I will consider a continuous
variable with seven or fewer unique
values as categorical when exploring data.
I will make exceptions or 10,
12, 15, and 15 unique values
if the opportunity is there.
Next, let's look at penguins.
Species, island, the species,
island and sex columns are strings.
We will count the categories for these categorical variables.
The other four variables are floats, they're continuous.
But we need to check how many unique values
they are in the double digits, if not the triple digits.
And so, no, I will not treat any of these four continuous
variables or numeric variables as categorical.
They simply have far too many unique values.
So in our starting point, we have now identified which
columns will be visualized with bar charts versus which
columns will be visualized with histograms, by again,
focusing on the data type and the number of unique values per column.
That's all for this video.
As an introduction to which plot type we will choose,
we will learn about many different plot types.
And comp 21 30 is a visualization specific class
where we dive even more within the ADDM program to
many kinds of plots, their interpretations and uses.
But that's all for this video.
I will see you in the next one.