Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/4Zb4S/problems-visualizing-continuous-variables

English
Hello everyone.
In this video we're going to see how to visualize distributions
of continuous variables using histograms.
I already have Jupyter opened up to the directory associated with this week,
if you do not, please pause the recording and do so.
Once you are back, launch a new Jupyter notebook.
Going to change the name of this notebook to week zero six histograms and
I'll put in my header information Comp 2100
week zero six creating histograms in pandas and Seaborne.
So I'm not going to break up this video into two on one with pandas and
one with Seaborne like I did with counting.
In this one, we will use both pandas and
Seaborne to see how to make histograms for continuous variables.
Now, as an overview, we cannot use bar
charts with continuous variables.
That is because bar charts count the number of rows for each unique value.
Continuous variables typically have far
too many unique values to actually count and
visualize with bar charts.
Instead, we want to see the intervals
where the variable is concentrated
versus the intervals where
the variable is not concentrated.
Okay, so that's an overview and introduction.
Let's go ahead and import the modules.
We will use the same four modules from the previous videos.
This week import numpy as NP, import pandas as PD,
import map bot lib py bought as PLT and import seaborn as SNS.
We will use the same two data sets as the previous video.
I already have canvas opened up to that module to
get the link for the Gapminder data.
If you do not have this available, please pause the video and
go to canvas to the module six data for this week page.
Copy the Gapminder file or URL path,
define a variable gap URL and
read it in P-D read CSV gap URL sep account for
the faculty tab separated.
We can check dot info, very good.
And as with the previous recording,
we will also load in the penguins data set,
again info to make sure it has worked.
Okay, now that we have the data available,
let's begin by visualizing the Gapminder data.
As review country and continent are strings or categoricals.
Year, is an integer but
has twelve unique values.
But I want you to look at life expectancy,
it is a float and it has over 1600 unique values.
If I take life expectancy and apply value counts to it.
We get a series that's very long because after all,
there's over 1600 unique values.
But look at the counts, we have a lot of ones,
some threes, some fours.
Let's apply value counts a second time.
Over 1500 values appear once and only once.
In this data set for life expectancy, 59 of the values appear twice.
Eight of them appear three times, and there's one and
only one value that appears four times.
Meaning if we would create the bar chart,
if we would make the bar chart for
this continuous variable with many unique values,
it's simply unintelligible.
So if I make this here where we take gap df,
life expectancy value counts,
blot kind equals bar, ax equals ax.
You see, this doesn't work right away,
it is taking a little while and it is completely unintelligible.
I do not learn anything useful except for the fact of look,
a lot of these values appear once and only once.
But because this is a plot intended for categorical variables,
I don't really know if these values are literally one or
two decimal points away from each other, or
if there is a larger difference between them.
I'm not learning anything useful or interesting from the data this way.
This is why when you have a continuous variable,
especially with a large number of unique values, you cannot use bar charts.
Instead, we need to use a plot
type that is specific to the numeric or
number data type.
We still want to count, but
we cannot count the raw individual values.
Instead, we need to focus on intervals.