Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/bANXb/visualizing-variable-combinations-with-faceted-bar-charts

English
Let's confirm what's happening
by filtering the data, penguins.loc.
We're going to filter based on two conditions.
We need parentheses, and this is an and operation.
I want to find the rows
where species is equal to how about Adelie,
A-D-E-L-I-E and where the island is equal to Biscoe.
I'm not going to print out the dataset.
I just want to pull out the shape,
get the shape attribute.
When species is Adelie and the island is Biscoe,
there are exactly 44 rows in that filtered dataset.
We'll look at the result of
the size applied to the multiple groups.
We have exactly 44 rows.
What this means is,
we are not asking how many rows
are associated with species equaling Adelie.
We are not asking that question.
Because if we check,
now we could just take species and do value counts.
There are a total of 152 rows.
We'll take a look at the species column in
our grouped result of species and island.
Adelie appears three times.
Let's just manually do,
44+56+52, 152.
The 152 rows of Adelie have
been spread across the three islands
of Biscoe, Dream and Torgersen.
The combination is telling us
how many rows are associated when one variable has
one value and when
another variable has another value or has its own value.
Now there are several ways that
we can visualize combinations.
Now, there are a few ways to visualize combinations.
We will start by building off of the bar chart.
Combinations can be shown using bar charts
through subplots or and
I'm going to introduce a new term facets.
A facet is another term for subplot.
At first, you might
think we might need to use a four loop.
We might need to iterate over the unique values of one of
the two variables and make
a bar chart for each value as a subplot.
But you don't need to do that.
Seaborn allows creating or associating
subplots or facets with
columns in the data frame
and this is what's really powerful.
Easiest way to understand how this
works is to see an example.
But I want to highlight facets can only be easily
created using figure level functions in Seaborn.
You cannot use access level functions for this.
But I want to create a bar chart
showing the combination between species and island.
Let's first use species as
the main horizontal variable, the x-axis,
and then the island will be
associated with the facets or subplots.
Again, it comes from
the figure level function, so SNS catplot.
All figures start with data.
Our dataset is penguins.
What will be the x-axis?
Species. Now to specify the subplots or facets,
we need to say, will the facets be along rows or columns?
Column facets are controlled by the col argument,
and the col or column will be associated with island.
Lastly, we have to specify that
the kind is count and then plt show.
Notice, we get three subplots or facets.
Each facet corresponds to
one and only one value of the island variable.
Look at when island is Torgersen.
When Island is Torgersen,
species is only Adelie.
How do I know that? Because the height
for the other two categories of species is zero.
What about when island is Dream?
The species is Adelie or Chainstrap.
If we scroll back up to where we
did the counting manually,
notice Island of Torgersen appears once and only once.
Chainstrap only shows up when Island is Dream.
When Island is Dream,
we also have Adelie,
but we don't have Gentoo.
That's exactly what we see in our faceted bar chart.
This is known as a faceted bar chart.
We can of course
switch the x variable and the column facets.
It starts with data,
but I could use island for the x-axis,
and I could use species for the column facets.
There's nothing wrong with either approach.
When island is the x-axis,
now it's very easy to directly compare
the height for all Adelie species across the islands.
We are now focusing on
a single species to see which island that species,
occurs the most on.
The other approach we were using was to really
ask which species occurs the most on a given island.
The facets are isolating to
a particular category of a separate variable,
which is different from the variable on the x-axis.
Alternatively, we could use row facets,
SNS catplot data = penguins, x equals,
let's go back to species,
but now row = island, kind = count.
The facets now go down
the row rather than across the columns.