Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/efYnc/visualizing-variable-combinations-with-dodged-bar-charts

English
However, a more common way of showing the combination
via bar charts is with the dodged bar chart.
When you're creating a dodged bar chart,
the second categorical variable is used to color the bar.
In Seaborn, the color or associating
color with a column or variable within the dataframe,
is known as the hue argument.
Let's see how this works.
Sns.catplot data = penguins.
I want to, again, focus on species.
Remember, when you type species as a string,
Seaborn understands to look in
this dataframe for a particular column.
But we could also show
the secondary categorical variable as
the hue or color rather than as the facets.
Hind is still count because we are counting.
All of the bars are now contained within a single axis,
but now the color of the bar is critical.
The color of the bar is
associated with the other variable.
The legend, which is automatically created for us,
which is really nice,
tells us what the color corresponds to.
Now in this figure,
when you see the color blue,
that corresponds to the island Torgersen.
When you see the color orange,
that corresponds to Biscoe.
Notice here, the height for Gentoo tells
us the Gentoo lives on the Biscoe island.
If we scroll back up to
when we looked at the marginal counts,
Gentoo has a total count of near 120.
Again, the colors here don't mean anything.
They correspond to the species,
but we don't need the color.
But now let's scroll down.
Gentoo is only on Biscoe Island.
Gentoo is blank, it's blank for Torgersen,
for Jerm it's only there for Biscoe.
That's exactly what we see in the dodged bar chart.
But now, why is it called a dodged bar chart?
Look at the x-axis.
The x-axis is telling us species. Here's Adelie.
But there are three bars separated
or dodged associated with this one category of species.
Each dodged bar is a separate color because that
is now examining what's
happening for the secondary variable.
This green height is
therefore not when species is Adelie.
It's not when island is Dream.
It's when species is Adelie and island is Dream.
Likewise, the orange bar is when species is
Adelie and the island is Biscoe.
The dodged bar chart is showing us the number of
rows for a combination of two categorical variables.
We are examining how
these two categorical variables relate to each other.
We can see species chinstrap is only on one island.
As we saw with the facets, we can, of course,
switch which variable is the
x-axis versus which variable is for the color.As
to which variable you
should use for the x axis versus the colors,
I personally recommend the variable with
the fewer number of unique values should be the coloring.
Or if you are using the faceted bar chart,
the variable with the fewer number
of categories is the facet.
You are therefore using more categories for
the x-axis variable. That's what I like to do.