Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/XvjIN/visualizing-value-counts-with-seaborn

English
We will begin by plotting the counts for sex.
Fig, ax equals plt subplots,
let's use the default arguments.
We are setting things up
just like the previous recording
when working with pandas.
But now, if you remember, here, actually,
let me put it in a note as a reminder,
when we worked with pandas.
We had to start with the dataset,
identify the column and apply the counting procedure.
Then we would specify
the plot and where it's located and then show it.
Let's now see how to do this in seaborn.
Seaborn follows a similar process,
but there is one major difference.
It begins by specifying
the defining the figure and axis objects
so this is the same.
But now we will call the function count plot.
Although this seems like the major change, it is not.
We are just specifying
the function rather than calling a method.
However, this is still very similar
because whether we're in pandas or seaborn,
everything starts with the data set.
In pandas, the dataset
is literally on the far left hand side,
it begins the process.
But in seaborn,
we have a data argument to all plotting functions.
The plot begins with the dataset,
and so I will assign penguins to that data argument.
Next, we need to identify the variable of interest.
The primary axis, if you will,
is the x axis or the horizontal axis.
I want to show a vertical bar chart so
my variable will be assigned to the x axis.
But working in seaborn,
I do not identify the column with dot notation.
I do not identify the column with bracket notation,
so I don't do either of these.
Instead, seaborn lets me
just type the name of the variable I'm interested in.
This is way simpler because
now I can just say I'm in this dataset,
and I want to isolate and focus on this one column.
We then need to specify the axis that we are
locating this plot on and then show it.
The overall format is pretty similar,
start with a dataset,
identify the variable, save
where you will show it or where you will locate it.
But do you see the major difference?
In pandas, we have to tell it you are
counting and then show the chart.
But in seaborn,
all we have to do is tell it which variable we want.
Count plot knows behind the scenes,
it must execute the counting.
The major difference is when plotting with pandas,
we must specify that we are counting.
But when using seaborn,
seaborn does the counting for us.
The look of the figure is also different and
I'm not talking about the fact that
we have two colors for the bars.
Instead, what I'm referring to is,
first, the text is displayed horizontally.
It's much easier to read.
We get a vertical bar chart where we can
easily read the categories and the values.
But we also get a label on the axis itself.
This tells us the name of
the variable that we are in fact counting.
The vertical axis is also labeled.
It's telling us here is the count for each category.