Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/SM8VB/visualizing-categorical-variable-counts

English
But value counts is telling us the count.
In many papers, peer-reviewed journal articles,
you will often see tables giving you the counts,
but I don't like tables.
It forces me to have to read.
It forces me to rely on my readers to read these values.
But why show texts when you can show a picture?
Let's now visualize the counts with a bar chart.
Although Matplotlib will manage the figure,
we will not call
a Matplotlib function to generate a plot.
Instead, in this recording,
let's use Panda's plotting methods to make the bar chart.
Now, Pandas uses Matplotlib.
Even though we're going to be using Pandas,
we must still begin by defining
the object-oriented style figure and axes objects.
Let's start fig, ax equals,
and now let's use the plt.subplots function.
Here, I'll just use the default arguments and now,
Pandas has plotting methods
but I don't want to apply the plotting method to GAP DF.
Instead, I want to first
identify the column I'm interested in,
apply the counting method,
and now I want to actually plot the result.
But in the plot,
I'm going to specify that the kind of plot is
a bar and the data will be
populated on this particular axis object
and the argument is ax.
So the ax argument is named ax because
that's the common convention for
an axis object in Matplotlib.
Ax = ax is saying,
assign the data in
this plot to this particular axis object.
The plot is a bar chart because I am
counting the unique values for this categorical variable.
The last step, we must show the figure.
Again, look at these steps.
Define figure and axis object,
plot a kind of plot,
and show it within this axis show the entire figure.
Let's see how to do this one more time,
but now not using the default figure size.
Fig ax equals PLT_plots,
fig size 12, and here we'll make it not very tall, four.
I'm using a particular dataset,
accessing one column from
it applying the value counts method,
and plotting kind equals bar,
ax = ax, PLT show.
By specifying 12, I made the figure wider by default,
four, I made it shorter than default.
Do you see how the labels here for the values?
They're a little hard to read
because they're not written horizontally.
The text can be made easier to
read by showing a horizontal bar chart.
Ax, PLT subplots, fig size.
Let's now use 12,6.
The dataset gap DF.
This time, I'll just access
continent using the direct bracket method,
value counts plot but
now instead of saying kind equals bar,
I'm instead going to say bar H. Bar H stands
for horizontal ax = ax PLT show.
Now, the values are written horizontally,
they are easier to read.
Before we move forward,
the purpose of a bar chart,
the count is the height of
the bar for a vertical bar chart.
The more observations you have, the taller the bar.
The fewer observations associated
with the category, the shorter the bar.
Why do I like visualizing the counts so much?
Because I can very easily see, hey,
this category has way fewer counts than this other one.
These three here in the middle,
they are different, but they're like this middle group.
They're closer to each other than they
are to the highest count or the lowest count.
I'm essentially rounding.
If I look at the raw data,
I have to do that rounding through mental math.
Sorry if I look at the counts as a table or text.
Horizontal bar charts work the exact same way,
but instead of the height of the bar,
it's the length of the bar.
The longer the bar is the more counts you have.