Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/ohdL2/1d-numpy-arrays

English
Hello everyone. In this video,
we're going to talk about something new.
We're going to introduce NumPy.
I already have my Jupyter Notebook up and running.
I'm in the directory that
we've been working in, in Week 3.
Let's just go ahead and create a new Jupyter Notebook.
Name this one week_03_numpy_1d_intro.
Put in some markdown text,
CMPINF 2100 Week 03,
introduction to 1D NumPy arrays.
Now NumPy stands for Numerical Python.
NumPy is what allow
Python to do any kind of data analysis.
Python by itself,
base Python it can't be used for data analysis at all,
can't be used for math.
It was NumPy that allowed it to happen.
NumPy was originally created by the founder of
the Anaconda company that
we downloaded all this stuff from.
NumPy is a module,
and so we need to import
NumPy in order to use any of its objects,
functions, or data types.
Let's in the next cell import numpy.
But rather than just ending here,
instead of just saying import numpy,
we use an alias as np.
To show you why,
let's first just import numpy.
The numpy module is here,
and as a module anytime we're going to use it,
we need to call functions from
within this module using the dot notation,
so just like the random module
we were calling functions from this module.
For example, we'll be using the arange function shortly,
but to call arange we need to type numpy.arange.
Because numpy is so popular and it's used so often,
nobody actually likes to type
numpy over and over and over again.
Instead, we will use an alias,
import numpy as np.
Every time we would have to type numpy,
we can now type np instead.
Because of this change,
I'm going to the Kernel,
restart and clear output.
I'm restarting everything, I'm clearing everything.
You can see all the numbers have gone
away and let's now run the cells,
import numpy as np.
We now have the module np.
It really is the numpy module,
but we're just referring to it by this nickname or alias.
Now let's actually start to use numpy.
Instead of running this cell,
I'm going to insert
a new cell and turn it into a markdown.
Put in a section header, NumPy 1D Arrays.
The ndarray is the workhorse of NumPy.
We will start with
the simplest version known as a 1D array.
Why it's called 1D will actually make
sense once we see the 2D version.
Now there are many different ways to create 1D arrays.
Let's start out with
a very simple approach called np.arange.
You notice I'm hitting tab A-R-A-, arange.
Let's put in six.
Running this function,
np.arange, generates an array.
Six said I want six numbers,
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.
By default, it starts at zero and it ends
with five because the six is end six exclusive.
Now we have used
a function that sounds very similar to np.arange.
After all, we have used the range function before.
The range function is in
base Python and remember range is a generator.
It's an entire data type.
If we do type( range( 6) ),
you can see it's a range data type.
It only actually generates the values when called.
If we take range 6 and convert it to a list data type.
Now it actually populates the values.
Range starts at zero by default it
then generates up to six exclusive so 0,
1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
That's exactly what np.arange has done.
Np.arange is not a generator.
Np.arange creates a 1D array
by default starting at zero and ending
at the number that we've typed in, exclusive.
Let's make this even more apparent.
Let's assign the result to a variable, to an object.
A gets assigned np.arange(6).
If we check the environment,
you can see a is ndarray.
Type( a ), it's a numpy.ndarray.
It is not a list.
Type( list(range(6)) ),
that is a list.
Let's go ahead and make this even
more apparent by assigning
the result of the list of range to an object.
The reason why I wanted to do
this is now we explicitly can
see there are certain methods and attributes on lists.
An ndarray from NumPy
has way more methods and attributes.
Way, way more.
There's so many methods and
attributes for a numpy.ndarray.
Jupyter Notebook actually creates
this little dialogue box so we can scroll through.
There's just so many.
There are some major differences
between lists and arrays.
But one thing that is similar between
lists and NumPy arrays that we can
slice and index, both objects.
Remember for a list,
we can access the zero element using the square brackets.
We can do the exact same thing in a NumPy array.
If I want to access the last element in the list,
I can use -1.
If I want to access the last element in the array,
I can also use -1.
If I want to slice my list,
say the first three elements,:3.
I can do the exact same thing with my numpy.ndarray,
my array, but the result is an array and not a list.
Likewise, if I want to
start at one and go to three exclusive,
I can do that for the list or the NumPy array.
I messed up. There we go, 1-3.
Indexing and slicing are the same syntax,
whether you're working with a list in
base Python or an array from NumPy.