Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/6fxEn/2d-array-attributes-and-creation

English
Let's convert the list of lists to a NumPy array.
We'll name this my array.
To convert the list to the array,
we need the np.array function and we give it the list,
just like we did when we
made made a list into a 1D array.
Type my array.
It is a NumPy array.
Arrays all have the same attributes.
We can check the ndim.
There are two dimensions.
We can check the shape.
Two numbers are now provided.
Why are there two dimensions?
Because the list of list
is now converted into a two dimensional array,
which is also known as a matrix,
which looks like a table.
It's not really a table, it's table like.
2D arrays are matrices and they kind of look like tables.
2D arrays have two dimensions.
They have rows and columns.
Shape tells you the number
of elements per dimension.
The zero element in shape 2,
they are two rows.
The one element in shape,
there are two rows and three columns.
Again, why did I type in the list of lists this way?
To highlight, I wanted to
organize things as rows and columns.
We are getting the rows as the inner lists.
We are getting the columns as
the elements or values inside the inner lists.
The size attribute is
the number of total elements in the array.
My array shape, the number of rows,
times the number of columns equals the size.
Let's see this one more time,
but please remember the list of
lists does not understand rows and columns.
If I would create my_array_b, where,
I'm typing in my list of lists all on a single line.
This is how Python views the list of lists.
My_array_b still has two dimensions.
My_array_b still has two rows and three columns,
my_array_b still has six total elements,
because the NumPy array
understands these inner lists become rows.
This is a quality of NumPy,
it's not a quality of base Python.
NumPy is creating the two dimensions.
Is creating the rows and the columns.
Again, rows are vertical, columns are horizontal.
Rows go down the page,
columns go across the page.
Creating a 2D array from
a list of lists requires each inner list
to have the same line.
This is really important.
If I would instead do NumPy array,
and I'm going to have here two lists,
zero, and then I have more ones.
This array cannot be created
because the first list only has three elements.
The second list has more than three.
A 2D array must have
the same number of columns in every row.
This is critical. That's why
you cannot create the list that way.