Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/ZsqtR/basic-scripts-arithmetic-and-comments

English
Now this is all great in everything,
we could really do an immense amount of operations here,
just in the console,
literally treating it like your favorite calculator,
but it doesn't remember what we're doing.
It doesn't create a report that is easily shared,
doesn't make a file that we can reference back to.
That's where scripts come into play.
Scripts allow us to record what we are doing.
So now by default you can see
a script is already here, temp.py.
The py extension means it's a Python script.
But rather than typing in this script,
let's go up to file, new file.
We now have a new Python script.
By default, Spyder puts
a bunch of header information
about it when I made the script.
But inside this script,
think of it as you defining or you executing actions.
You can see I'm just typing stuff in
here doing a bunch of different procedures,
addition, raising to a power,
division, assigning values to variables.
But every time I hit Enter rather than running the code,
it's just going to a new line.
Scripts think of them as
essentially you typing in a Word document,
but instead of typing phrases or
paragraphs or text you have things to read,
you're really typing commands or expressions,
things to execute or run.
But hitting Enter does not execute or run anything.
Instead, we need to use commands for running the line.
Notice where I highlight here,
you see this button, run selection, or current line.
There we go. I place my cursor there.
You hit this button and
now look what's happening in the console.
There's an input statement and
a resulting output expression, or output statement.
In the script, we are
typing down the commands that we want to run,
and we run them when we need them.
Whereas in the console,
literally every time we type
something it gets evaluated or executed.
Scripts can be saved.
Let's save this file.
In Week 1,
we're going to just name this our first script.
Now you can see here
our first script.py is available,
or lives inside the Week 1 directory
of our project folder.
Every command or expression can be
run except for something known as a comment.
Comments in Python start with hash tags.
Do you see this line?
This line cannot be evaluated hashtag 2 plus 2,
so let me go back up to the 2 plus 2 command and run it.
Two plus 2 equals 4,
but by starting this line with a hashtag,
it is not executed.
The comment character is
a special character that
tells Python or any programming language,
do not evaluate this line.
Comments enable us to
type reminders, descriptions, discussion,
or other statements to
describe what we did and why we did it,
as well as report anything interesting.
You can see if I run this whole thing, nothing happens.
Comments are really important for programming.
In Python, there are two kinds.
I literally start it with a hashtag,
or we can create the multiline or block comment
using three double quotes
followed by three double quotes.
This is a multiline or a block comment.
Everything between the three double quotes
are not evaluated,
so 2 plus 2,
3 times 3,
x equals 3,
y equals 2,
z equals x plus y.
None of these get executed.
Nothing is done.
It's just displaying exactly what was there.
Now I, in my own personal style,
I like to use three hashtags.
This is my style for comments,
I reserve multiline or
block comments for special occasions,
so I use these rarely.
Let me say this,
and this is our basic script.
The primary point here,
console evaluates or runs the command or expression.
The script stores what we did but
doesn't run it until we tell it comments,
tell the programming language,
the interpreter, don't run this,
it's just a statement.
But now, all that said,
we will not use scripts in all this semester, we're not.
I'm now going to just close down Spyder.
In fact, I'm going to close down Anaconda Navigator.
I'm going to quit Anaconda Navigator.