Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/3M6eZ/combining-arrays

English
Now, the Python community loves
to assign masks to new objects.
It's really common to see
a conditional test assigned to a new variable.
I despise this.
I do can't stand it.
The reason I need to remember what object
the mask was applied to and what the conditional test is,
If I pick up this work a month from now,
I'm not going to remember what a mask is referring to.
Instead, I prefer to just apply
the conditional test directly to the slice.
I feel this is easier to read,
it is easier to remember,
it requires less variables to be
defined inside your notebook.
It also means I can very easily
change my conditional test.
If I want to find where A is less than 1, I can do that.
If I want to find where A is
greater than 4, I can do that.
I don't need to define a new masking variable.
Let's return to the B array.
Member B has 21 values, 21 elements.
I want to find all values of B or
return all values of B that are less than 3.
I don't need to make a masking object,
I can just provide that conditional test
directly into the slice.
Try some more conditional tests.
B greater than 3,
B or B is less than or equal to 4,
so on and so forth.
The next way we can manipulate A arrays is we
can combine multiple arrays together.
But before we see how to do that,
let's create two small lists.
A list 1, 2,
3 and B list 3, 2, 1.
We know that the plus operator
combines the two lists together.
A list plus B list,
put the two next to each other.
Now, if I would do B list plus A list,
it would have a different order,
but it still puts the two together.
However, we know that
the plus operator does not work the same way with num Pi.
Let's create two arrays from those lists.
A array is made from A list,
B array is made from B list.
We know that if we add the two arrays together,
each element is added together.
Remember, num Pi is about math.
It's not really about data storage, it's about math.
But sometimes we need to modify
the objects rather than adding the values together.
We can combine, or the fancy term is
concatinate the arrays using the np.concatinate function.
It's a very long word.
I spell it wrong all the time, but C-O-N-C-A.
Then hit CON tab, you'll see concatinate.
Now, the syntax for this function is a little confusing.
We separate them by commas,
but that doesn't work correctly.
You'll get an error.
It tells us only integer scalars can be converted.
Instead, to use concatinate,
you have to provide a list.
Each element in the list will
be the arrays that you want to combine together.
Now, what's going on when we make this list?
It's really behind the scenes,
is creating a list where there are two elements.
The first element is our original array A array,
our second element is the other array,
B array and concatenate combines the two together.
If we would change the order,
that changes the order of how they
are combined, or concatinated.
We can combine more than two arrays
by providing more elements in the list.
Let's combine all four arrays that we have
made in this notebook, NP concatinate.
We'll type it in as A array, A B array.
All of the values in
all four arrays are now combined together.
A array was 1, 2, 3,
B array was 3, 2, 1.
A was negative -101-101,
then B was -5-+5.
Now, what's important is the result of
this concatenation, is an array.
Meaning the np.concatinate function gives us arrays with
all the same attributes and
methods as if we made the arrays ourselves.