Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/ovfOa/conditional-slicing

English
Now the point I want to make here is in
our original array,
it was very easy for us to
identify all of the values less than three,
because we just needed the first three elements.
It was also easy to identify
all the values that are greater than two,
I just needed the last three elements.
But in our new array,
using just the first three elements does not
return all of the values less than three.
We happen to get values less than three,
but they are not all of them.
There are more values that are less than three,
and so our simple slicing action does
not provide us that capability of finding all of them.
What this is leading to is in addition to slicing,
we can also want to do a conditional subset.
Conditional sub-setting filters or
slices an array based on a conditional test.
What's a conditional test?
A very simple one is one less than three.
Well, a conditional test is we can use
an operator to compare these two values.
One less than three,
you can see the result is a Boolean.
The answer is true, obviously.
Is five less than three?
Five less than three,
the answer is false.
Another Boolean, because five is not less than three.
There are, of course,
many other often conditional operators,
less than or equals,
equals, equals, equals and some more.
Let's return to our first array of six elements.
I want to use a conditional test to
check if each value is less than three.
Now, because this is such a small array,
I can obviously just look at it and I can
identify which values are less than three,
and which values are not less than three.
I'm just coloring in here true and false.
We can apply conditional tests
to every single element in the array.
In base Python,
if we were working in lists,
we would need to iterate.
We do not need to iterate with four loops or
comprehensions when we are
given to do simple operations in NumPy.
If I want to compare every element in
the array a to the value three,
I can simply type in the command a<3.
Behind the scenes, NumPy
applies that conditional test to every single value.
As you can see here,
the result is an array.
If I use the type function,
we are told that specifically this is an array,
but the values in this array are Booleans.
They are true or false, they're not numbers.
Now this is an important point,
NumPy arrays are really intended to be homogenous.
That means all elements
should be the same data type within the array.
NumPy has allowed having heterogeneous arrays,
value, the elements being different data types,
but that's really not the purpose.
In fact, even though you can have say Boolean's,
NumPy arrays are highly specialized for holding numbers.
That's really what their original intent
and their primary purpose is.
NumPy is for math.
Even though we have this array of true and falses,
NumPy really is for holding numbers.
But as you can see here,
we can hold something different.
This is important because we can assign
the result of this conditional test to a new variable.
Let's assign the result of
the conditional test to a new object.
This new object is commonly called a_mask.
I'm naming the new variable a_mask.
If we check the environment,
the original array a,
it's an array, it has
six elements and they're
all integers, they're all numbers.
A_mask, it's an array,
it has six elements and they're all Booleans.
They're all true false.
If I just print it to screen,
display it to screen, again,
we see the same thing,
but if we print it, we get the true, false, true, false.
This mask serves a useful purpose.
It identifies all elements in
the array a that satisfy the conditional test.
This means we can use the mask to remove,
or to keep or filter the elements that meet our test.
This is a very long winded way of
saying we can use the result
of the conditional test to slice our array.
We already know every value
that meets the condition is less than three.
That's everything with this is true.
Rather than us typing:3,
we can type a_mask.
Again, the slice identifies the indices to keep.
The mask identifies all of
the values that meet a condition that are true.
It's going to give us all elements in
the array that satisfy the test.
Again, to see that we're asking,
is this value less than three? The answer is true.
Then is this value less than three? The answer is true.
Is this value less than three?
The answer is true. Is this value less than three?
The answer is false, so on and so forth.
We will keep all values in
the array that have true results.