Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/uXvzi/creating-2d-arrays-from-1d-arrays

English
Alternatively, we can create
2D arrays by combining 1D arrays.
Let's make two very simple 1D arrays.
An array containing zeros,
another array containing ones.
A 1D array does not have rows or columns,
it really simply has length.
It's listed as one dimension.
Here you have three corner,
meaning the first dimension,
the set zero dimension has three elements.
It looks like a row
of values rather than a column of values,
but really a 1D array
doesn't have an idea of row versus column.
Row versus column is a two dimensional thing.
Think of a 1D array as really just having a length.
Again, b 1D.
It has just values elements in one dimension.
We can use the NP concatinate function
to combine the two 1D arrays.
We already know how to chain them together.
If we provide the two as elements in a list,
NP concatinate places them side by side.
But I don't want to do that here because putting
the two side by side gives me another 1D array.
Reading a 2D array from 1D arrays
requires changing the syntax to NP concactiting.
This syntax is a little strange.
You need a list of lists, a, b.
In many ways, it looks very similar to how
we created our 2D array from a list.
We are giving it a list of
lists because each list is a row.
I think this format just looks a little strange,
since after all you're having to embed
the 1D array in a list which is already in a list.
There are specialty functions that
simplify stacking arrays together.
Stacking arrays on top of each other is
known as vertical stacking or vertical combining.
The np.vstack function gives us a simpler syntax.
We need a single list and each element of
that list will be
vertically stacked on top of each other.
Combining arrays side by
side is known as horizontal stacking.
The np.hstack function,
we'll place them side by side.
We can combine or stack
more than two arrays at the same time.
Let's create another array.
How about an array of two's and an array of three's?
I can vertically stack them together, a, b, c,
d as elements in a list provided by v stack.
Each of the 1D arrays become rows
and this 2D array has four columns.
We can also stack 2D arrays together.
The previous example here was stacking 1D arrays,
but we can combine 2D arrays on top of each other.
Let's demonstrate this by combining
v stack with another v stack,
a, b, c,
d. The np.vstack was a 2D array,
two rows, three columns.
The second np.vstack,
2D array, two rows,
three columns, we put those two on top of each other.
Really 2D arrays are
1D arrays stacked on top of each other.
You can basically think of each row as like a list.
The lists are now ordered down a spreadsheet.
That's why a 2D array is table like.
That's all for this video.
The primary purpose again here was to
demonstrate what a 2D array looks like,
it's like a table compared to
a 1D array which really just has a length.