Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/xGoAj/descriptive-statistics-and-sorting-in-pandas-dataframes

English
Let's confirm.
Let's go back to the NumPy array.mean.
Axis equals 0.
We want to summarize a long axis equals 0.
Here we are now getting the average per column 11,
11, 12, 12, 13, 13,
14, and 14.
We're going down the rows.
But anyway, you can see
the mean is giving us the same result
as when we apply
the mean method to the NumPy data frame,
and also we can get the same thing for
the std method if we use the correct ddof.
Again, 1, 2, 3,
4, 1, 2,
3, 4, four columns.
Besides applying these methods to the NumPy object,
we can get a quick summary of
the important descriptive statistics by just
calling.described on the Pandas data frame.
Let's now do the same thing for the baseball data frame.
We saw previously that this data frame does
not contain numbers, it contains strings.
Notice the descriptive statistics are different.
Instead of giving mean and standard deviation,
we get the number of unique values.
Do you see the one here for division and league?
Well, there's only one value down
all of the rows in this column.
There's one unique value.
That's exactly what
the unique summary descriptive
statistic is providing to us.
The number of unique values per column is
something we will be talking about in
more detail over the weeks to come,
but here we get
a quick demonstration of it just from a Pandas method.
One of the takeaways from this is
that you can quickly
summarize your entire dataset with one method,
and depending on whether you
contain all numbers or all strings,
the summary statistic you should focus on is different.
Over the next few weeks,
we'll learn how to handle what happens if we have
data frames with both numbers and strings.
Now, as I mentioned before,
there are many more methods,
but we will not show most in this video.
Instead, let's consider how to
sort or order or arrange the data frame.
We're not going to see how to calculate the mean
and the standard deviation with Pandas in this recording,
even though we know how to do that already with NumPy.
But let's go back to
the baseball data frame now and look at the team column.
I typed these is seemingly no order,
Pirates, Reds, Cubs, Cardinals, Brewers.
But I would like to sort the columns.
I would like to sort the columns in
alphabetical order based on team.
The method is sort values.
Now, when you provide the argument for how to sort,
I want you to use a list.
Inside this list, you should
put the name of the column as a string.
Now look very closely at the results here.
Brewers, which starts with a B is now the top row,
followed by Cardinals, Cubs, Pirates, and Reds.
But look at the city column.
Milwaukee is also located at the top.
Pandas views the entire row as getting
rearranged or reordered when we sort based on one column.
All columns are actually going to be
rearranged but you're rearranging
them based on one particular column.
This is a much more intuitive way to think about
rearranging when you're rearranging your data.
You are specifying one column,
but the entire table
or data frame is being impacted by that.
But now something to note,
the data frame itself has not been changed in memory.
Every time I type baseball DF,
you can see the pirates are still located at the top.
This is because most Pandas methods
do not modify in place.
When I sort by a particular column and just display it,
it's like I'm looking at what happens,
but I'm just exploring the options,
I'm not storing the result.
Another thing to note,
look at the index.
The index, again, is associated with the row.
If the rows get reshuffled,
the location of the index also changes.