Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/tfhon/for-loops

English
You might be thinking that was really tedious.
I want you to type this in,
I want you to get the practice of doing it.
But you're right, this took
an overly long amount of time and
you might have had some typos the first time he did it,
and it took you a bit.
The purpose of this simple exercise is to show you if
we're going to just keep doing
the same thing over and over again.
There must be a better and more efficient way
than just manually typing it in.
Take this cell, convert it to markdown.
Iterate with for-loops.
A for-loop allows us to apply or execute,
he will say apply an action or execute
a procedure over and over again.
We do not need to manually apply the action,
or copy paste, which is very very dangerous.
A for-loop iterates over a sequence by
changing the value of
an iterating variable along that sequence.
For example, let's return to where we were just
printing the elements of the habits.
What we were doing,
was we were manually iterating through this sequence.
In a for-loop,
the basic syntax is it starts with the keyword for F-O-R.
This is a reserved word.
You cannot use or assign a value to this word.
The second piece of a for-loop is the iterating variable.
Let's name it a Hobbit.
Then we need the keyword in.
For a_hobbit.
In the_hobbits.
The_hobbits is the sequence we are iterating over.
After the sequence, we need the colon,
and the colon is very important.
Essentially, what we have written here
is the command statement
for iterating variable in a sequence do something.
That's really what this colon is representing.
Do something. Now what do we want to do?
Those actions will be
contained in the body of the for-loop.
I want you to hit Enter.
Notice when you hit Enter,
the cursor is not located on the far left of the cell.
The cursor is indented.
Indentation is incredibly important in Python.
I personally dislike this,
but the Python developers in
the Python community love this fact.
We are telling the programming language,
I'm executing some process in this
for-loop simply because we are indented inside it.
This is really critical.
Do not change the location of your cursor.
Keep it indented.
The action I want to apply is
the print function to a_hobbit.
Now look very closely here.
This iterating variable, a_hobbit.
It doesn't exist,
and before we run it.
Let's go up here to the cell before our markdown.
Insert a cell and use magic command tools.
We see the-hobbits,
but a-hobbits is not in memory.
Click back on your for-loop and run that cell.
It does not error out.
It displays the names of the values in the list.
It was doing exactly what we were doing here.
Let's now check the environment.
The iterating variable,
a-hobbit is now present in memory.
Essentially, the for
keyword created this variable for us.
It assigned the value of
that variable based on the sequence we gave it.
Look closely, the current value of a_hobbit is Pippin,
or the last element in the_hobbits list is Pippin.
This four-loop was essentially
iterating through pulling out
each element and displaying it.
It stopped doing that when it
reached the end of the sequence.
Now this iterating variable that was
created has this one value.
Now, there are many ways we
could have organized this four-loop.
Let's make another markdown cell.
A common way to create or define
a four-loop is with a range function.
Range, I'll put in
back tick range is known as a generator.
It's a very special data type.
The range function, when we run this cell,
it doesn't seem like it has done anything.
It just tells us I'm going to start at
zero and give you up to and excluding four.
But the purpose of range is
to generate values when needed.
That's why they are so commonly used in four-loops.
Basically what you're about to see is
this action auto generated by range.
Now how can we repeat this in a four-loop?
Well, it starts with four,
we need a iterating variable which I'll
call n in a sequence,
range (4) colon, enter the body,
print n. I'm not printing 0,
1, 2, or 3.
I'm instead printing whatever the current value of n is.
Run that cell and now you see 0,
1, 2, 3 displayed.
If we check the environment,
n has a value of three because that's
the last value generated by range.
Now why is range so commonly used?
Go back up here to cell cell type,
make it a markdown.
The range function is often used to
generate a sequence of integers to subset lists,
for m in range (4) colon, enter the body.
Let's print the hobbits
m. Look very closely at what's happening.
This iterating variable is going to get created by range.
It's going to have values zero,
then one, then two, then three.
We're using that value to subset or index the list.
Basically, this action did
exactly what I had manually typed in here.
Our original four-loop in
many ways was a streamlined version
of this because instead of having
to index or subset the list,
we were explicitly iterating
over the elements of the list.
But either approach can work,
and let's make this cell a markdown cell.
We do not need to specify the HARD CODE,
the four in range.
We can use the len function
to give us the length of the list.
Len the_hobbits.
See how it's the value four.
Well, let's use four n in range len the_hobbits
colon print the_hobbits n.
This four-loop does not have anything hard coded.
It is using the actual list itself to figure out
how many elements or
how many times it has to iterate through
it in order to subset the list.