Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/Mcdjj/getting-started-with-jupyter

English
We're now going to work in Jupyter Notebook, okay?
Jupyter Notebook.
But to launch it, I want you to open up your anaconda prompt for
your Windows user.
If you're a Mac user, your terminal shell.
And again, the previous video talked about how if you're a Mac user,
you need to enable the conda command to work.
By launching the terminal shell,
the prompt, I'm in the base environment.
As the last video explained, to switch to our
cmpinf2100 environment, we need to activate it.
And now that I'm inside cmpinf2100,
I want to launch the Jupyter Notebook by typing jupyter notebook.
And it's J-U-P-Y-T-E-R space notebook.
And then hit Enter.
You will see a web browser, a web page, open up.
This web browser looks like a website,
but it is not hosted anywhere online.
You see where it says localhost?
This browser is on your machine.
It looks like a web page, but that's just the browser.
It's just the software that's showing us something.
We're not actually on a web page.
You can't come to my browser and see my files.
I can't go to your browser and see your files.
When we launch Jupyter Notebook, we actually get a files manager.
And so I want you to navigate your
directories to the project directory
we made for CMPINF_2100.
cmpinf_2100_project, week_01.
You will see the Python script that we created.
But we're now going to go to New,
New, and you will launch a Python 3 kernel.
Launching this opens up another tab,
another browser.
Again, it looks like you've gone to a new web page.
It's just that Jupyter Notebook is a browser-based piece of software.
The terminology for how to work with
Jupyter Notebook shares a lot in common with
that IPython console we saw in Spyder.
Jupyter Notebook works with a series of cells.
A cell has an In statement.
This is where we type something, and then an output may be presented.
Okay, to see that, I want you to click on or
within the first cell located here.
And notice when I'm double clicking, or
I'm clicking in this gray area out here,
look very closely at the color of the cell,
because this color is really important.
You see how it's blue?
The blue color denotes command mode, but
when I click into the cell, the cell's color becomes green.
This is known as Edit mode, and the differences between them will make
more sense once we start creating multiple cells.
But in this very first cell, let's type the first set
of commands we used in the IPython console in Spyder.
We did 2 + 2.
If I hit Enter, it takes me to another line within this cell.
And you can see as I keep hitting Enter, I can make the cell very big.
But instead, I want you to backspace or delete,
get rid of all those extra lines, and I want you to hit the Run button.
Run cell.
By running the cell,
do you see how we now get an In statement?
This is the first command we ran.
Here is its associated output.
We could type in another command.
We can run it.
Again, we could keep going through, Typing in another command and running.
Oops, I forgot.
Actually, I'll leave that there.
That's fine.
Notice I screwed up this expression.
I meant to say 2 x 2 x 2 x 2.
Just to reinforce what 2 to the 4th power is doing.
We will be talking more about errors in warning messages and
debugging in greater detail in a few weeks.
But this is already just showing you this statement resulted in an error.
And Jupyter Notebook displays that error for us.
We can see that there was something wrong.
It could not complete the expression.
Whereas when I correctly finished the statement,
we now have the In with its associated output.
Every time we run a cell, we get a new number and
this number increases sequentially.
But let's now return to that idea of command versus Edit mode.
Do you see how that bottom cell is blue?
In command mode, when I hit an up or down arrow,
I'm able to select different cells.
I'm commanding Jupyter Notebook to navigate across the cells.
If I select a cell which is highlighted in blue and
hit Enter, I enter into Edit mode.
Now I'm able to start typing.
I could come back here, maybe even change this to 4 + 4,
and I could run the cell again.
Look very closely at the In and Out numbers.
Even though this cell is located at the top of the file,
at the top of our notebook, it tells us this is the number 6.
That means this is the 6th command that was input.
And here's its corresponding output.
And what that means is this cell was actually
executed before this one, even though it comes after it.
This is a seemingly minor point, but I know there are going to be some of you,
more than a few, where the order that the cells were executed
will be incredibly important and will lead to errors.
And we'll actually see that here in a second.
But please pay attention to this numbering, okay?
Now, inside a cell, we are free to include
multiple actions, multiple commands.
But if I run this cell with the multiple commands,
I don't see results output for all of them.
Unfortunately, only the very
last command will be output.
What we need to do is to use a function.
And our very first function that we will learn about is the print function.
The print function, to run the function,
we need parentheses.
Parentheses are incredibly important in the programming languages.
Parentheses tell the computer to
execute this function call.
It means this is not a variable or object name,
but actually an action to perform.
Inside the parentheses is where we place arguments.
Functions can have zero arguments, one argument, or dozens,
if not hundreds of arguments.
When we run the command or the function print,
notice we get the output displayed, but
we don't have the same format of the display.
We don't get the Out with the numbering,
we just get the returned result printed.
We can now include multiple
print function calls.
And if you look closely here, I'm putting white space.
I like to use a lot of white space to separate numbers,
to separate numbers from parentheses.
It's not hugely critical.
We could just type all of this
without any kind of spacing, but
having the spacing can make it easier on our eyes to read.
But now if I hit the Run button,
notice we don't just get one number displayed,
we get the print result for all 1, 2,
3, 4, 5 print function calls, okay?
The point of this exercise is to show you what gets displayed or
output from a cell will depend on the functions you call in that cell.
But now we need to consider the type of cell we're working with.
By default, the cell is a code cell,
meaning we type commands and they are executed.
And hashtags are comments in code cells.
Whether you want to use one hashtag,
two, or three, as I like to do,
you will always have a comment on that line.
So even though I'm typing the print function,
it will not execute or evaluate that command, that expression.
Running the cell just displays the hashtag comments.
Now, the reason why we're showing this and
talking about it is because in a script, like we saw within Spyder,
comments are absolutely critical in scripts.
We need to use comments in order to
describe what we're doing.
For example, print the result of 2 + 2
to the screen using the print function.
Okay, but in Jupyter Notebook,
we don't have to rely just on comments to describe things.
Because in Jupyter Notebook,
a cell can be multiple types.
By default, it is a code cell.
But we could also change it to a markdown cell.
And by changing to a markdown cell,
did you see how the In number was removed?
There is no longer In, there's no code input.
This is not a code cell.
We cannot run functions or run commands,
evaluate expressions, or call functions.
We are typing in a markdown cell and
markdown text,
although it looks like code will
be rendered in a nice format.
So this kind of looks like I'm typing code,
like 2 + 2, print 2 + 2.
But watch what happens when I hit the Run button.
Now all of that text doesn't look like code font.
It looks like nice, easy to read font, like what you would
almost see in a Word document or on a web page or in Google Docs.
If you double click back on the markdown cell,
it returns back to markdown text,
which is now edited or editable in Edit mode.
Again, run it to render.
Go to the next cell and hit Cell Type > Markdown.
We've now converted it to a Markdown cell.
The other really important aspect of the cell type
is hashtags are not comments in markdown cells.
This is not a comment.
Your first clue is it changes color and size.
This is still not a comment.
This is still not a comment.
More hashtags mean smaller font.
Hashtags in markdown cells
create section headers.
More hashtags represent more subsections.
And now if you run, you can see it looks like a title header,
a section header, a subsection,
a sub subsection, then it even italicizes it.
The point being, markdown text allows us to actually
write nice and easy to read section headers and
text that can be included with our code.
So go to the next cell.
Cell > Cell Type > Markdown.
Let's put in a section header.
Our first notebook.
This is our first Jupyter notebook.
We can type markdown text to create
nice looking discussions,
which describe what we are programming,
why we are programming,
and describe the results.
A simple code cell.
Below is a code cell that prints the result of 2 + 2.
Run that cell.
So again, double click to go into Edit mode, or
to select Edit to turn it into Edit mode, Run.
Now, in this cell, I'm keeping it as a code cell, and
I know it's a code cell because of the In statement print 2 + 2.
Run that cell.