Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/KxW1C/heterogenous-lists-exporting-jupyter-notebooks

English
Now, the last thing that we will do in this example,
let's convert this to a mark down
cell. Let's put it in a header.
Lists are heterogenous.
Lists can contain multiple data types.
A homogenous object consists
of one and only one data type.
But a list can hold many kinds of data types.
Let's make another list named another list.
The list has a square bracket,
and it will include the value 1, 1.0, the string,
one, the string, and here we even use do one,
the string with single 1.0, and then true.
True as a boolean and notice that the font color changed.
Run this cell.
We can display all the results
or we can display the whole list.
We can confirm this is a list.
We can check the environment.
Another list is a list it has length six,
and we can check the length ourselves, six.
But now with this much longer list,
I definitely don't want to manually type
through and apply the type to each individual element.
This is a perfect reason to use a for loop.
For an element in another list, colon enter.
Now, in the body of the for loop,
print, type an element.
You can see we have an integer,
a float, a string,
a string, and a boolean.
That's exactly what we had typed in here.
An integer, a float, a string,
a string, a boolean.
If we're not sure if we did this right,
let's extract out one of those elements and apply type.
There's the integer, there's a float.
Here, let's go to the very end. There's the boolean.
Again, I know this was throwing a lot at you,
but all of the syntax is
fundamentally assigning values to variables,
examining the data type of those variables.
Then repeating actions within
a for loop to manage the repetition for us.
That's really all we were doing,
just over and over again and
using the mark down to make nice readable text.
Now, if we save
this document and we file close and halt,
we have this Jupiter notebook that we
can always open up inside Jupiter notebook.
It stores everything that we just did.
But a Jupiter notebook
can only be opened in Jupiter notebook.
If you would give this file to your boss, manager,
supervisor advisor, they have to open it up
in Jupiter notebook.
The nice thing, though,
is if you go to file and download as,
we can effectively convert
this Jupiter notebook to an HTML file.
I want you to go to file download as HTML and select it.
You'll then get this new browser
opens up and then a download will show.
I like to just open my downloads folder.
You'll see it here.
I like to cut it and then paste it into
the same location as
the actual raw source code, the IPYNB file.
Go back here, close out the tab,
save the file again, close and halt.
Now, I want you to quit
the Jupiter notebook and you can close this down.
We have been returned back to the console,
the prompt, the terminal shell,
and you can hit type in exit to close it.
But now you have in here,
the source code and this HTML file.
Click on the HTML file,
and now it will open up a new browser
because HTMLs are opened up by web browsers,
but this is not a website.
It's just a file on our machine.
But now, this file contains everything that we did.
It has all the nice formatted text for mark down.
You can come in here,
zoom, you can shrink it.
But this HTML effectively serves as
a static report showing everything that you have done.
You could give this file now to anybody.
They don't need any Jupiter notebook Python.
They don't need anything installed.
They just have to have a web browser
to be able to open it.
I know this was a quick introduction
to some important syntax.
I want you to practice it.
Let me know if you have questions.
We will be making use of a lot of
these actions and commands and functions next week.
That's all for this video. Good luck.
The homework assignment reinforces
everything that you just saw here.