Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/GXaef/introduction-to-pandas-series-basics-and-practical-application

English
Hello everyone.
This video it's all about starting with pandas.
Pandas is a major component in the data analysis toolkit for Python users.
It took a long time to get here, but we will be building off of a lot of the stuff
that we learned with NumPy about working with attributes and methods.
Let's go ahead, get started.
As you can see, I already have a Jupyter notebook open.
Please pause the video and
open up a Jupyter notebook in the right location yourself.
Going to name this week _04_pandas_series.
Put in some header information CMPINF 2100
Week 04 introduction to Pandas-Series.
Pandas is built on top of NumPy.
So whenever we work with pandas,
it is also important to load in NumPy.
Meaning when you import your modules,
we should start by importing NumPy as np,
then import pandas as pd.
So the conventional alias for NumPy is np.
The conventional alias for pandas is pd.
There are two major data types in pandas.
This recording focuses on the building block, the first kind,
which is known as the Pandas Series.
A Pandas Series is similar to,
yet different from python lists and
1D NumPy arrays.
So there are certain things that will appear like we're working with a Python
list or a 1D NumPy array, but then there are things that are quite different.
Let's create a Pandas Series FROM a Python list.
So we're going to create a series, but
I first want to define a list.
I'm going to name my list grocery list or my object.
I will assign to the variable grocery list the following list.
So you see the square brackets.
This is a list in Python milk,
bananas, apples,
lunch meat, soup, and oreos.
This list, we check the environment.
You can see it has six elements which we can
get by applying the length len function.
You can see it is a list data type which we can confirm by calling
the type function on it.
We also know how to SLICE or INDEX the list.
I can return the zero element or
the last element.
I could also slice the first two.
I could slice the one position up to, but
excluding the fourth position and any other kind of slicing procedure.
Let's convert the grocery list
list into a Pandas Series.
I will assign the result to a new object called grocery series.
To convert it, we need to use the pd.series function.
So the series function is from the Pandas module.
So instead of np, we are working with something from Pandas,
therefore, I'm typing in pd.series.
I'm going to use a single argument, grocery list.
If we check the environment,
grocery list, was a list, length six.
Grocery series is not a list, it is a series data type.
So again, if we apply the type function, you see,
we get this is a Pandas series.
We could check the attributes and methods associated with the Pandas series.
But by doing so you can see there's a massive amount of
attributes and series available here.
An absolutely huge amount.
Pandas, again, it's built on top of NumPy, so
it's bringing in almost all of those same attributes and series.
There's a huge amount of things we could be doing.
So in fact, I'm just going to go to command mode and then press DD.
So type the d button twice to remove that cell,
because I'm not even going to print out all the attributes and methods.
Instead let's focus on the .index
attribute of the Pandas series object.
Up to this point, anytime you have ever heard me say index,
it's been in reference to using an integer to pull out one or
to slice several elements from an object.
But in Pandas the index is an actual
dedicated attribute of the series.
So if I use the dot notation and start typing i-n-d,
you can see there is a tab complete option.
I could complete this and
be provided the index attribute.
Now by default, the index attribute, if you look closely here,
it tells us it's coming from range means this is a generator object.
Just like the range function.
It starts at zero.
It goes up to six with step size one.
Pandas operates differently than a lot of base Python operations,
and you'll be seeing that here as we move forward.
But one thing to please note, you see, stop equals six.
We know that the length is six.
This six is exclusive here.