Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/rDb1G/lists-indexing-and-slicing

English
The list is a container,
it contains multiple elements.
Lists are initialized or created with square brackets.
This will seem a little odd.
Let's define a list as
an empty list equals square bracket.
We're not going to type anything
inside this list and I want you to run it.
Next use the magic command whos,
an empty list is a string.
Do you see n = 0?
That means the length of an empty list is 0.
It has no length,
but it's an object in
the environment of the data type list.
The idea of an initial empty list
is something that will be important
over the next couple of weeks.
We'll come back to this idea next week.
Let's make this a markdown cell.
Let's now make a new list
that consists or contains four strings.
My favorite book is the 'Lord of the Rings'.
I'm going to make a list named the hobbits.
In this list, I'll have the names of
the four hobbits that are in the fellowship;
frodo, sam,
merry, and pippin.
I'm just typing them all as lower case for simplicity.
If you look very closely,
I'm using a comma to separate each of the strings.
The comma is very important because that will
separate the items or elements of the list.
The number of things I type in
corresponds to the length of the list.
I have 1, 2,
3, 4 strings.
If you run that cell,
the length of the hobbits is four and to
confirm the hobbits is a list,
and we have it here in memory.
The hobbits n = 4.
Convert the cell to markdown.
Lists, like strings,
can be indexed, sliced, or subset.
We use square brackets.
Just as with strings,
the hobbits, the zeroth element in the list is frodo.
But really important, the zeroth element
is not the first character of frodo.
The zeroth element is not just a single letter.
This is the zeroth element inside this entire container.
This object, this list has four things.
I'm extracting out the zeroth first element from it,
so the entire character comes out.
We can slice it.
Maybe I want the first two.
I can confirm that the second one element is sam.
I can also extract the last element which is pippin.
We can extract out the elements,
we can even apply functions to what we extract
out type the hobbits zero for it's a string.
Why is it a string?
Well, because really what
we're doing here is we're saying give
me the value stored in
the zeroth element and that value is the string frodo.
Again, as to remind you, the hobbits,
the list is a list,
even though the elements inside it are not lists.
We could do this action to every single element.
I could print out,
print every element in the list.
It was tedious to type out,
but you can see I'm extracting out the zero,
the one, the two, the three,
prodo, sam, merry, pippin.
We can apply the type function to get the data type,
the class for each of the elements contained in the list.