Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/Ts6Y0/managing-execution-in-jupyter-introducing-data-types

English
In Jupyter notebook in the File Manager,
we can now see our first notebook is located here.
It's an ipynb file that really stands for
IPython or Interactive Python notebook.
But the IPython notebook was then renamed to be Jupyter notebook as
an organization some number of years ago to be more encompassing than just Python.
But it still preserved the ipynb file extension.
If I open up my File Explorer,
Okay, my File Explorer, you can see I have
located here our script that we made and
our notebook that we created just a few minutes ago.
I want you to click on our first notebook again, or click on it.
It opens it up, and you can see we have all of the exact same numberings.
We see everything that we had accomplished before.
It's all here.
Hey, it looks great.
And you know what?
Maybe you're going to be working on a project with somebody at a job,
and you give them your notebook and, hey, everybody says Jupiter.
It's a great thing to use.
It makes sharing your work easy.
It makes sure that people can work together and it minimizes problems.
But Jupiter is very dangerous.
All of that nice talk you will hear about it
hides a very important flaw with Jupiter.
Do you remember how we were able to just come in and
insert a cell wherever we wanted?
We were able to come in and insert this procedure.
Now, technically, Jupyter is
telling us these actions took place
after what comes beneath them.
Because remember, Jupyter is preserving through
this number the sequential order of operations.
But notice there is no one here.
Because we reevaluated, it's gone.
We would have to manually look through to see what's the lowest integer number?
Here's 2.
The history is 2, 3, 4, 5.
Here's 7.
We got to go find 6.
There's 6.
Here's 7, 8, 9, 10, 11.
Then there's a bunch of markdown cells.
We're back to 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19.
Then we got to go all the way back up here to 20, 21.
Why am I making a point of this?
When you relaunch your Jupyter notebook and you start at the top of the file,
because that's where we begin at the beginning.
And you run the file.
Look at the number.
This is number one.
This is the first execution of this
new instance of our notebook.
Now, run the second cell.
The interactive namespace is empty.
There are no variables assigned or defined.
There are no objects in the environment.
Run the third cell.
It cannot work, z, x and y aren't here.
Again, we'll be talking more about errors later.
But the warning message tells you z is not defined.
And our magic command, who's showed us it's not here.
I wanted to show this aspect of working in Jupyter,
really working in any programming environment in the very first week.
To demonstrate to you how dangerous using something
like this is when you consider the fact you can put
code wherever you want here, wherever you want.
Just because you can see that you had run something before,
when you launch it again, you pick up your
homework a day later or a day after you started it.
Or you pick up your project a week after you started it.
When you rerun everything,
there's no guarantee that your code will actually work.
The order of operations is hugely important.
So we will be seeing this.
It will pop up from time to time.
It's a very common mistake.
Please double check what variables are in your
environment when you are working, okay?
So that's why I just wanted to start right out of the gate by showing this to you.
And we'll just leave this error in here and
let's now just go through and rerun all of our cells that we had.
Great, okay, so we're back to where we were, x, y and z are here.
In this bottom cell, let's convert it to a markdown.
Let's put in two hashtags for a header.
Data types, there are many data types in
programming languages like Python.
Data types dictate the kinds of
operations we can do on the object.
Run that cell, actually, now go back into it.
The backtick type backtick
function is a function that
returns the data type of the input argument.
That's a long winded way of saying if you apply the type
function to a variable you will return its data type.
We could even print use the print function around type.
This gives us a little fancier view
of it because it says the class or data type is Int.
Int stands for integer.
This is a whole number.
Y is also an integer.
But Z is a data type called float.
A float is a decimal point number.
A float has numbers to the left of the decimal point and
numbers to the right of the decimal point.
You can add integers and
floats that will convert the Int into a float.
So numbers, integers and floats can work together.
And if they can interoperate together because they are still numbers.
The aspect of being an integer versus a float really comes down to how
much memory is required iron to store their values.