Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/lKfkG/manipulating-2d-arrays-slicing-and-indexing

English
Hello, everyone.
In this video, we will continue working with NumPy,
learning how to manipulate 2D arrays.
I already have my Jupyter notebook up and running.
I'm in the file manager for the project for this week,
I'm going to launch a new Jupyter notebook.
Please pause the video and set up your Jupyter notebook and then come back here.
All right, let's go ahead and
name this one week_03_numpy_2D manipulate.
I'll set up the section headers,
manipulating 2D arrays.
We can manipulate 2D arrays just like 1D arrays,
but we need to be careful.
That's one of the main things I want you to take away from NumPy.
Please be careful.
It sounds great, but you got to be very, very careful with NumPy.
Let's begin by importing NumPy.
Import NumPy as np.
Create arrays, we will use
a 1D array to contrast with
manipulating 2D arrays.
I'll name my 1D array, my_1d.
And we'll use a simple NPA range with six values.
For the 2D array, let's go ahead and
manually create this from a list of lists.
But rather than having our list with just two lists,
I want to have a list with four lists.
As we learned in the previous video,
that means we will create a 2D array with four rows.
I want to have my array have three columns.
So our array will be four rows and three columns.
Let's confirm it.
Yeah, two dimensions, four rows, three columns.
The total size four times three is 12.
And again, to contrast this,
the n dim the number of dimensions for the 1D array is 1.
It only has values in one dimension.
All right, so the first kind of way to manipulate is we can slice.
We know that for a 1D array, you can index or
slice just as you index or slice a list.
But let's look what happens if we slice
a 2D array just like a 1D array.
My_2d 0, my_2d 1,
do you see what's happening?
If we give just a single number to slice,
the 0 slice returned three things.
The negative one slice,
the last slice returned three things.
Providing a single index to
slice causes NumPy to slice the rows.
It returns all columns from that row.
The more formal syntax uses the colon
operator to specify return all rows.
And this is actually how I like to do it.
I don't like giving one number and getting a whole bunch of things.
I find it to be vague and confusing.
I instead like to use comma colon.
The reason for this is it makes it very clear.
I want the zeroth row, all columns,
or I want the last row in all columns.
I want the one row in all columns.
This highlights slicing or
indexing 2D arrays requires
an index for rows and columns.
And that's the reason why I prefer this more tedious style.
It also makes it very easy to now identify one value.
For example, I want this value right here that I'm highlighting.
This value is in the second row and the second column,
or Python notation, the one row and the one column.
To access that cell, I need its row
position and its column position.
Now, I'm pulling out one value from our 2D array.
When you have this idea of providing
the two indices, rows and columns,
it's easy to slice a subset of rows and columns.
For example, I want the first two rows in all columns,
or I want all rows in the first two columns.
We could even do the first three rows and
the last two columns, okay?
So you can slice and dice your array however you want.
And because it's still an array,
we can always check its attributes.