Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/FVDVK/manipulating-1d-arrays-slicing-and-indexing

English
Hello, everyone. In this video,
we will continue to work with
Numpy_1D arrays and we will learn how to manipulate them.
I already have a Jupyter Notebook session started.
I'm in the same project folder that we worked with in
the previous video where we created
the introduction to numpy_1D arrays.
We want to go ahead and launch a new Jupyter Notebook.
Please start your own Jupyter Notebook, pause the video,
get to the Jupyter Notebook itself,
and then once you have it, pause it,
and let's follow along.
I'm going to name this Jupyter Notebook Week 3_1D array.
Let me make sure that I have the same naming structure.
Numpy_1D_intro.
Week_03_numpy_1D manipulate,
but in some header information,
manipulate and summarize 1D_NumPy arrays.
We can modify or manipulate
1D_NumPy arrays in multiple ways.
We can modify individual values.
We can slice or index to remove elements.
We can combine arrays together.
We can change the order of the values.
We can summarize the values within the array.
Let's go ahead and now set
up working with Numpy and then we will
demonstrate all of
these different manipulation operations.
First, import NumPy.
Remember NumPy does not exist in base Python,
we have to import it and we will use the common alias np.
That way we can work with
NumPy functions as np rather than having to type NumPy.
Next, let's create an array.
We will work with a few simple arrays in this notebook.
In the previous video,
we saw how to use the np a range function.
I'm creating array np array with
six values starting at
zero and they increment by steps of one.
As we learned in the previous video,
very important attributes of
arrays ndim the number of dimensions,
shape the number of elements per dimension,
size the total number of elements in the array.
Let's now modify values.
NumPy arrays are mutable,
meaning we can change their values.
Remember, tuples are immutable.
They cannot be changed.
But if we want to modify a value in the array,
we actually first need to know how to slice or index.
Slicing or indexing works just
as slicing indexing of base Python lists.
All of the syntax that we learned about for
slicing lists carries over into NumPy.
If I want to find the zero element,
I can use square brackets.
This is the exact same way to
identify the zeroth element of a list.
I want the last element,
I can use -1,
the last element from the end.
If I want the first three elements, colon three.
This gives the same result as if we would
actually use the starting point of zero.
If I wanted to start at the one element,
then it does not give us the zero.
But remember the value after the colon is exclusive
so it's really up to but not including
the third element that's why we don't see three here.
We can also do from the third element to the end,
from the one element to the end,
so on and so forth.
How can we modify or change a value slice or
index to identify that value or
that element and assign a new value to it?
If I want to change
the zero element from 0-(-101),
I access that element and assign to it a different value.
If I want to change the last value,
from 5-101,
I access that value or that element and I change it.
It's as simple as that. Let's go ahead.
And now if I slice the first three elements,
you can see we get -101 rather than starting at zero.
If I slice the last three elements,
we get 101 instead of five.
But something to keep in mind.
Let's create another array.
I want this array to be assigned to
b and we'll make the array using np.linspace.
Remember linspace starts at a point,
ends at a point,
and we have to provide the number
of points between those two.
The ending point is inclusive in linspace.
So np linspace (-5,
5num)=21 produces 21 values between (-5, 5).