Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/JOr5L/pandas-series-indexing-and-slicing-a-deep-dive

English
If I would type grocery list, zero,
grocery list, five,
that's the last element in the list.
But let's now work with grocery series.
We can slice it just like we did the list using brackets,
grocery series, grocery series.
But look what happened when I provided negative 1.
We did not get
the same result as when we tried to index or
slice grocery list when we used grocery series.
Just why that is will be made
more clear here in a minute.
But the first thing to note,
we know how to slice or index lists.
At first glance, slicing or indexing
a Panda Series seems very
similar to how we did the operation with lists.
But it's not a one to one.
We cannot use the exact same procedures
that we used with the lists.
We'll find out why that is in a minute.
But the.index attribute does
not need to be a range index integer.
In fact, we can access it,
meaning we can change it.
I'm going to assign
some new values to the.index attribute.
I'm going to type in a set of strings 0,1, 2,
or I'm going to type in a list containing strings 0,1,
2, 3, 4, 5.
Now, if I access the.index,
we do not get the range index, instead,
it tells us your index has these values and the dtype,
the data type is object.
We will discuss the object data type
in more detail later.
But anytime you see
a Pandas object data type, think character stroke.
But let's now print our series to the screen.
This clearly does not look like our list.
It almost looks like a table or a 2D array with rows.
We have the values on
the right and we have the index on the left.
I'm using those terms very specifically,
the Pandas Series has both index and values,
kind of like a dictionary with
key valued defining each item.
Grocery series.value returns just the values.
Grocery series.index returns just the index attribute.
But when we use the square brackets with a series,
it's really intended to be thought of as we
want the value at this key.
Very similar to how the key value pair
of a dictionary works.
At the beginning, when I
typed that a Panda Series is similar to,
yet different from a Python list in a 1D NumPy array,
that is because there are certain influences from
the key value pair item from dictionaries.
That key value pair influence is the fact
that every value can be associated
with an index when we slice the series,
we could do so using the index itself.
You can also still provide an integer,
though you can give
the integer index value
even when there is some non-integer index.
This can be quite confusing.
Let's pause for a second,
hold this thought,
and let's continue to practice by defining a new series.
This series will define
the.index attribute when the object is created.