Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/smizt/pandas-series-defining-indices-and-handling-non-unique-values

English
Previously we had a list
which we converted to a series
through the pd.series function.
By default it made the index attribute for us.
Instead, let's make a new series called more groceries,
which gets assigned pd.series.
The first argument will become the values,
but there's also an index argument.
I'm going to specify the values to
be a list of apple juice,
pop tarts, butter, and yogurt.
I now need to specify
the index for each one of those values.
Let's do Item 1,
Item 2, Item 3.
Then just to demonstrate that
the index does not need to be some sequential counter,
the last one will be top gun,
which doesn't sound like has anything to do with Item 1,
Item 2, Item 3.
Our pandas series,
again, looks like a table where we have
the values on the right and
the index attribute on the left.
To index the series, again,
we give the index value,
Item 1, apple juice,
top gun, we get the last one.
But again, we could provide the integer index to slice.
Rather than typing,
top gun, I could give a three in the bracket.
Important, please be careful,
if you define the index attribute
manually upon creation of the series,
the number of elements or entries
for index must be the
same as the number of entries for the values.
For example, if I typed pd.series 1,
2, 3, 4, so I'm giving a list with strings
and then I say the index will be A, B,
C, this will not work because I
have four values yet, only three indices.
The error tells you that.
Length of values four does not match length of index.
They must be the same.
Let's now define this one more time.
This time we will highlight what I think is
one of the most confusing aspects of the index
because I personally really dislike
it and as heavy users love the index,
I think the.index attribute is confusing
because the.index attribute does not need to be unique.
If we go back and take a look at our previous examples,
like when we had the default range index,
which is just a sequential counter,
then when we manually defined the index as strings,
then when we did it again,
each one of the indices were unique.
It made it seem like the index
would uniquely define each value,
just like it does in a Python dictionary,
where you give the key and you get the value.
But this is again where
the similar yet different aspects
of Pandas comes in from other parts of Python.
Let's make another series.
It will get assigned from Pandas series.
We're going to make a simple list of ABC,
which has the Index 1 as a string,
two as a string, and then two again as a string.
This does not produce an error.
What you have for the indices,
they do not need to be unique.
You could have non unique values
and you can have non unique indices.
Now when I slice,
slicing the series by giving the index
will return multiple values if the index is not unique.
Another series, (1), we get A.
Another series (2) as a string,
we get two values produced,
B and C. Because both of
these values have the exact same index.
Now if you want to slice and only return the value,
you need to apply or you
need to use the.values attribute.
If you only want to return the index,
you need to use the.index attribute.
If you slice at that index location,
you get both the value and the index.