Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/eD4kG/series-concatenation-in-pandas

English
We have created several series in this example.
We can Append or Extend or
Combine multiple series together
using the pd.concat function.
We do need to be careful though about the way
the arguments are provided to pd.concat.
Pd.concat and now everything that we want to
combine together needs to be contained in a list.
So let's combine grocery_series
with more_groceries with another_series.
Again, all three of these series
are placed as elements within a list,
and that list is provided
as the argument to pd.concat.
And if you look closely on the printout,
you can see that the index from
each individual series was retained.
When combining separate series
together, sometimes we want
a Brand New index attribute.
To do so, we can use the ignore_index
argument within pd.concat.
So let's do this again, pd.concat
we need our list of grocery_series,
more_groceries, and another_series.
But before running the line,
include ignore_index = True.
And now by doing that, the index is
not the set of strings that we had before,
the index has become a bunch of integers.
Let's do this one more time and
assign it to a_bigger_series, so
pd.concat grocery_series, more_groceries,
another_series, ignore_index = True.
And then, just to be safe, sometimes like to apply the .copy method.
Do you remember when we talked about side effects in Numpy,
how side effects might produce that linkage or
the dependency where by subsetting.
Or slicing or combining things together we
may produce a dependency back to the original object.
By applying the .copy method, any possible
linkage to the original objects will be removed.
Now a_bigger_series,
you can see its index is that RangeIndex,
all because that we set ignore_index = true.
One more time, let's just do this one more time, pd.concat.
This time let's take grocery_series with
more_groceries with another_series,
and then a_bigger_series, and
then combine them all together.
Even though we had the strings
as the indices previously,
and then we had the Range Index,
you can see the concatenation
allowed the indices to all be combined.
That's because pandas will convert data types,
even if we weren't intending that to be the case.
What I'm trying to highlight here is the fact that a_bigger_series,
its index is a RangeIndex.
So this is a bunch of integers really behind the scenes.
When we combined our other three smaller series,
though, we produced indices that were strings.
But when we combine series that have strings for
the index attribute and then integers a range index for
the index attribute with another series.
Pandas is going to change the data type,
potentially of our integers,
so we do need to be careful for
how it's going to work with the index.
Sometimes it will give us strange
behaviors, and because of that,
I think one of the safest things
to do is to ignore the index when
you combine series together.
Part of the reason why I feel this way is because I
personally believe if your index attribute is
something other than a sequential counting number,
you actually have another variable.
And that's something that we will get to in the next video
that discusses data frames.
Because if you really have a second variable to go with
the values you care about, we basically need to combine
multiple series together to produce the data frame.
In summary, the pandas
series looks kind of like
a mix between lists,
1D Numpy arrays and
Dictionaries.
Values are stored and
associated with an index attribute.
The series can be sliced using the .index Location,
and I use that term specifically.
That's the quote unquote value of the index, okay.
So I hope you like this video.
Again, a simple introduction to the Panda series.
We will build on this for the next one with a data frame.