Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/EWnSJ/strings-booleans-indexing-and-slicing

English
Let's now put in another section header, strings.
A string data type is a FUNDAMENTALLY
different class than integers and FLOATS.
Strings are characters, so
think of letters, words, and phrases.
Let's create our first string, we'll call it my_string.
The underscore is a character,
it just helps break up the name.
So instead of saying my string, I'm putting in effective space,
because we can't have a variable name that has a wide space, so my_string =.
A string must be encapsulated or
contained between quotes.
So I'm using a single quote 'abcde',
run that line of code.
And let's now use the magic command who's my string is typed str.
Here is its value,
type (my_string).
You can also use double quotes for the string.
So single or double quotes can be used for the string data type.
To confirm that these are the two same things,
let's take this cell and convert it into a markdown cell.
The = sign operator ASSIGNS
values to objects, but
the double '==' or
equals equals operator is a CONDITIONAL or
LOGICAL test about if the VALUES
of the objects are the same.
So let's type in single quotes 'abcde'.
And now == double quotes "abcde".
You run that line or you run that cell and you get the result True.
My_string == "abcde" does
not assign abcde to my string.
It's checking,
does this object equal this value?
And now this word True is really important.
This word True is a data type itself,
it's known as a Boolean.
So let's put in another markdown cell.
A BOOLEAN data type is a TRUE/FALSE value.
Python displays Booleans as True or False.
So you will see that text printed to screen here,
let me put this in back tick so they stand out.
It looks like characters, but really it's an entire
data type of its own, true or false, okay?
Now let's let's put in another markdown.
Strings are kind of "special"
in that they can be SUBSET.
What do I mean by subset?
Well, let's introduce the Len function,
or the length function.
The len function returns the length of an object.
The string my_string consists of 1,
2, 3, 4, 5 characters.
It has length 5.
If we would apply length to X,
you can see the data type doesn't support such an operation.
Different data types can have different methods and attributes.
An integer does not have length, it's known as a scalar value.
Strings in Python have length.
So here, let's insert a cell but
convert it to a markdown cell.
Integers do NOT have length in Python but
strings do have length in Python.
This means strings can be sliced,
indexed, or subset.
Let's make this cell another markdown cell.
We can SLICE or INDEX or
SUBSET the characters in a STRING.
The '[]' allow us to INDEX or
access elements from within the string.
The notation here will at first look rather odd.
My_string[1].
This says I want to extract the one element.
If we run this, do you see how 'b' is returned?
In the next cell just output or
display my_string.
B is the second character,
convert the cell to markdown.
Very important.
Python is a ZERO BASED INDEX language.
Meaning the first element is the zeroth element.
The zero element rather than the one element.
We describe things in Python as zero,
one, two rather than one two three.
That takes some getting used to, but
once you start thinking that way, it's not too bad.
I will make the mistake from time to time because I don't like zero based index.
I think a one is more natural to me but
that's just the way python is set up and designed.
This command is extracting
out the value in this element
of the overall string.
Convert the cell to a markdown, put in three ### for
a section header called slicing.
We can extract out more than just a single element.
We can extract or
SLICE multiple elements at a time.
We do that, actually, I forgot to put it in.
We slice by including the,
':' operator.
The ':' operator has a START or
BEGINNING index to the LEFT and
an END or FINISH index to the RIGHT.
But VERY IMPORTANT: the beginning
index is INCLUSIVE, but
the ending index is EXCLUSIVE.
So this is very strange at first
type my_string, my_string{0},
I want to begin at zero and
I want to slice up two, but
not including the third element.
The reason why I think this is confusing is because Python starts or
because Python is zero based index.
Look, [0:3], start at 0, but
give me everything up to and excluding the third element.
The length of this result is 3.
Now, the actual third element is 'd'
because remember, it's 0, 1, 2, 3.
So 3 is the fourth item.
If we would change the start from 0-1,
we are now beginning at the one element and
returning up to and excluding the three element.
This is giving us just two things.
Use a cell markdown.
A shortcut to start from the beginning
is to NOT include anything to the left of ':'.
So my_string [:3] means start
at the beginning and give me up to and
excluding the third element.
The one way I like to read this statement then is,
this really says give me the first two, give me the first three.
Give me the first four elements in the string.
So this syntax makes more sense to me because
I can view it as I want the first three things,
the first four things.
Convert the cell to a markdown cell,
if we exclude the ENDING index or
we do not include anything to
the right of ':' we will return
EVERYTHING from the BEGINNING to the END.
So my_string[1:], this says start
at the one element and give me everything else.
So start at the two element and give me everything else.
So if you ignore, Something to the left or
the right, you get the entire thing.
Convert the cell to a markdown.
If the index is NEGATIVE,
that starts from the END.
So my_string[1] gives us the one element,
but my_string[-1] says give me the last.
We can identify the LAST element as [-1].
My_string[-2] is the next to last element, so go 2 from the end.
Okay, so this example so far, we have been
introduced to integers, floats, strings.
We've seen one of the key differences between strings and floats.
Strings are sequential, they have length.
We've been introduced to Booleans.
But let's now see a very important data type the list.