Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/qpWnB/summarizing-2d-arrays

English
Okay, lastly, summarizing.
We can summarize 2D arrays, but again,
we always have to be careful when we're working with NumPy.
Let's first review 1D summaries.
My 1D, remember, we can get the min,
we can get the max, we can get the average,
we can get the variance, but ddof = 1 to be unbiased.
We can get the standard deviation.
Again, ddof is 1 to be unbiased.
But what happens if we summarize a 2d array?
My 2d remember, we have four rows and three columns.
If I want the min, this returns the minimum value in the entire array.
If I want the maximum, it returns the maximum in the entire array.
Likewise, the mean returns the average in the entire array.
But part of using 2d arrays is we
often want to summarize each column
separately from the other columns.
Meaning we do not want the overall
summary across all columns returned.
Instead of getting one number,
I want to have a summary stat for every single column.
There are three columns, so I should have three summaries.
If I want the minimum per column,
I have to specify summarize down the rows.
Summarize down the rows, and again,
I think this is a little confusing in the syntax.
I like to think of it as I want the summary per column, but
we have to tell it summarize down the 0 dimension down the rows.
If you're ever not sure if you've done this correctly,
always return back to the shape.
If I have three columns,
my summary should have three numbers.
What this means is if I want the minimum per row,
we have to apply the summary across the one axis.
And again, if I have four rows,
then I should have returned four summary stats.
So always think carefully about which axis you're applying everything across.
My 2d max axis 0 the maximum value per column,
my 2d mean axis 0, the average per column,
my_2d.std ddof = 1 axis 0
the standard deviation per column.
And again, if I wanted the standard deviation per row, ddof = 1, axis 1.
Now I have four because I have four rows, okay?
So that's everything for basic manipulations of 2D arrays,
slicing, conditionally subset, sorting and summarizing.
Again, please remember to be careful about side effects when you slice.
And you always have to remember
when you're summarizing which axis you want to use.
Summarize per column, your applying it to the 0 axis down the rows.
That's all for this video.
I'll see you in the next one.