Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/3dpjR/the-python-programming-environment

English
Hello, everyone.
In this video, we're actually going to start programming.
But we have to do one thing before we can begin programming,
we need to set up our directories.
In the previous video, we created the virtual environment
that will have all of the software that we will use, but
we need to save files, save our information somewhere on our computers.
I have already opened up a File Explorer on my machine.
As a Windows user, I use File Explorer here.
One way to open one up, if you're a Windows user,
you can come down here, where you see the file on the ribbon.
You can right-click and click on File Explorer to open up a second one, okay?
I will typically have three or four of these opened up on my machine.
If you're a Mac user, you want to open up Finder.
Finder is the Mac equivalent of the File Explorer.
Now, on my computer, I like to save stuff within documents.
Can already see where I have a folder for
the ADDM program inside a file path in my Documents.
In here, I've already made two subdirectories, courses and paperwork.
And within courses are subdirectories or folders for
the four courses in the ADDM program.
We're in COMPF_2100, so I'll click on it.
I always like to have a prep folder,
this is where I practice everything before everything for the class.
I also have a publish folder, this is where we will be working.
So in publish, I click on it, and I now have an empty folder.
going to make a new folder.
And inside publish, I'll have compf_2100_project.
It's just the name of the directory.
And in this directory is where we will locate
everything that we're going to do this semester.
So I opened up or went inside that directory,
compf_2100_project, make another new folder.
I could even do that by right-clicking in here,
New > Folder, week_01.
We can make another one for week_02 that will be used for
next week, so on and so forth.
Now, in week_01, we click in here, and
we just have empty, there's nothing here right now.
That's okay, this is where we will save things.
So I'm going to move this out of the way, Okay?
Now, we're first going to program in a script within
an integrated development environment, an IDE.
This will be the one time this semester where we
start programming by launching Anaconda Navigator.
So please launch Anaconda Navigator first.
Again, we get all that stuff that it throws on the screen.
Okay, great, we now have Anaconda Navigator.
And in Anaconda Navigator,
you will see the application is on.
Again, this is telling us we're currently in the base root environment.
But when you click on it, when you click on this drop-down box,
you should now see compf2100.
The virtual environment we created in the previous video,
I want you to click on that.
And I get this thing, it will update and say, No, remind me later.
Okay, now, inside compf2100,
you see there's a whole lot of things that have been installed.
Pretty much all of the programming we will do will be inside
Jupyter Notebook, but I want to first introduce you to Spyder.
Spyder is an IDE, an integrated development environment,
it's modeled or designed after MATLAB's IDE.
I want you to launch Spyder.
Bunch of things pop up.
I have even some messages here, I'll just discard.
All right, here we go, Welcome to Spyder.
Okay, we could start a tour, I'll dismiss this.
Okay, here's what I want to focus on right now.
Spyder, as an IDE,
consists of a text editor on the left,
it has the console in the lower right.
And then it has this other panel, and
we'll see where that comes into play in a little bit.
The other thing that's important is this area up in the very top.
This is the path for the current working directory.
This is where we are located in.
As you can see, my path is here, but
I want to change the directory.
I'm going to click on this folder, and
I'm now going to navigate on my machine,
publish > compf_2100_project > week_01.
I want you to select week_01, Select Folder.
And now, you can see it has navigated,
it has changed where we are located here.
The very path has changed.
Now, in the lower right,
this is the IPython console.
IPython stands for Interactive Python.
In this console, it shares a lot of similarities with the command prompt.
We can type commands in here, we can essentially treat it as a calculator.
2 + 2 equals 4, 3 * 3 equals 9.
Look at the notation for
how the console is organized,
there's an in and an out.
We must input commands, and output is then displayed.
Each input-output block is numbered.
I had my first action as 2 + 2 displaying 4,
then my second action, 3 * 3, displaying 9.
We could do even more things here in the console,
we can assign variables.
So before I do this, see above the console,
there's a Help, but
I want to focus on the Variable Explorer.
This is all of the variables in the current environment.
See how everything is empty?
And so even though I'm typing in commands in the console and
it's running things, running various actions,
there's no variables saved in memory.
To assign a variable, we need to give it a name,
we need to use the equals sign to
assign some value to that variable.
x = 2, when I run that command,
notice there is no out displayed.
But in the Variable Explorer, in the environment,
we can see there is now a variable named x in memory.
If I type x, I can display it,
I can do other actions such as 2 * x or 3 + x.
I could even take x and raise it to a power,
x to the fourth power, x * x * x * x.
In Python, We don't
use the caret operator to raise something to an exponent.
This is incorrect.
We want to instead use two asterisks for raising to a power.
That's really, really important, really critical.
Okay, if you want to square something,
x ** 2, or about 5 squared,
which is 5 * 5.
We could, of course, assign other variables, how about y = 5?
Notice now in the environment, x and y are both located here.
They're in memory, we could do x + y,
we could do x * y, we could do y / x, x / y.
We could do pretty much anything we want at this point.
x and y are really just aliases for
these values.
Variables or objects will enable us to do a lot of
very complicated data analysis procedures.
So it's important to remember how
to assign a value to a variable.
And we could even assign a value based on other variables.
So z = x + y,
We can now see x is 2, y is 5.
2 + 5 is 7.
z = 7.
Again, we could do then further actions on z.