Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/pPgKY/using-jupyter-notebooks

English
The point being here is if we were just in a script, we would have to
really rely on comments to describe everything that we're doing.
But you can't give your script to your boss, your manager,
your supervisor, your research advisor.
Most of the time,
they don't want to have to read your comments to figure out what you did.
But with Jupyter notebook, you're able to organize a nice report.
That report can have easy-to-read text with section
headers that allow us to organize our analyses.
Your notebook will also be able to include all of
the code that supports what you're doing.
The Jupyter notebook, therefore, is not just a coding script.
It's not just a word document where you type your results.
It literally is going to have everything.
This will help make sure you can reproduce what you have done.
One more thing on markdown cells,
let's convert this cell to a markdown.
Put a section header.
Bulleted lists.
We can create bulleted lists using markdown.
To make the list, you go to a new line, hit asterisk, space, and
do you see how now the font has changed color?
It's black now it's blue.
First item in the list.
Second item in the list,
3rd, 4th, so on and so on.
Back to regular looking text.
Run this cell.
By running the cell, we don't see the asterisk.
We don't see the blue versus the black colored font.
Instead, we see a nice bulleted list.
It's well organized.
If you double click on the cell, it goes back to the markdown code.
Run the cell to render the text.
So again, this is a way to help organize and present your discussions, okay?
All right, so let's put in another markdown cell.
Cell type markdown defining variables,
let's define two variables,
x and y in the code cell below.
To run this cell, instead of going up and hitting this arrow,
I'm going to use a keyboard shortcut Shift + Enter.
Now, it evaluates the cell and puts in a new one.
I want you to double click on that cell again.
Do you see how x and
y were displayed like regular text?
Let me put a comma.
I would instead like these variables to be shown as looking like code.
So I'm going to put a back tick to the left of x and
a back tick to the right of x.
If you've never used a back tick before,
it's the character on the same button as the tilde.
The tilde is usually to the left of the one on your keyboard.
Surrounding x and y with back ticks, you see the font
changes color goes to orange, you run the cell and
now the font is displayed in like a code font rather than the nice text font.
So it's just a simple way to distinguish that I'm referring to
a variable in the environment rather than just typing some word.
Let's type in x = 3.
Enter a few times y = 7.
We're defining these two variables, x and y.
Again, keyboard shortcut, Shift + Enter.
Nothing is displayed, but
we now have access to the variable x.
We have access to the variable y and
we could do any of the operations on x and
y that we did when we were working in the script in Spider.
But one of the downsides of Jupyter notebook
is that there is no panel that shows us all of
the variables currently in the environment.
Like in Spider, remember we had that panel
up here that listed x and y in the next cell?
Let's convert it to a markdown cell.
Jupyter notebook includes
magic commands that allow us to see or
inspect aspects of the variables,
objects in the environment.
Magic commands all begin with percent.
You have to input it in a code cell and
the magic command W-H-O-S,
whos, is asking Jupyter to return who
are the variables or objects in memory?
Now we see, we get the name of the variable, the data type which we'll
talk more about in a minute, and then some information about it.
The who's therefore giving us that environment or
variable explorer like we saw in Spider.
So at any time, if you're ever unsure about
what is present in memory in Jupyter notebook,
use the magic command who's to find out.
Let's go ahead and now define a new
variable z which is equal to x divided by y.
If we use the who's magic command,
we now see there are three variables in the environment.
And again, if you look closely, the who's is really
a snapshot of the present state of the environment.
Now, I want to show you a common mistake that happens
because in Jupyter notebook we have been adding
cells sequentially, one after the other.
But click in the gray area.
The blue shows we're in command mode.
I want you to move or hit the Up Arrow on your
keyboard to move up to go all the way back to the very first cell.
Now, you see where we're selected with this first cell,
I want you to press the plus button.
So see this plus button?
This stands for insert cell below.
We have now inserted a new cell that was not there before.
Click inside that cell to enter edit mode and
use the whos magic command, run the cell.
This cell, which is cell 20 that's
been executed in the environment,
tells us there are these three variables x, y and z in memory.
Select that cell again and
hit the plus button to insert a new cell after it.
I want you to type z times x
times y and run that cell.
We have been able to evaluate z times x times y because after
all those three variables are in the environment, they are in the memory.
Everything seems great.
We have recorded all of our actions.
So let's go ahead and now save
this notebook up in the top.
See where it says Jupiter?
And this says untitled.
I want you to click on Untitled.
Put your cursor here.
You should see a gray box appear.
Click on it.
And we're going to give this a new name, our first notebook.
And then hit the rename button.
It's no longer an untitled file, it's our first notebook.
Save, so hit the Save icon here.
Go to file.
Close and halt.
That closes out all of the code and
operations associated with this file.