Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/qnGda/what-is-a-2d-array

English
Hello everyone. In this video
we will continue working with NumPy.
We will build from the 1D array
and work with a two-dimensional array.
I already have Jupyter notebook up and running.
Please start it yourselves.
Pause the video and get it going.
I'm already in the directory
that we've been working in and
I'm going to create a new notebook.
Let's name this one, week_03_ numpy_2D_intro.
Put in our header information,
introduction to 2D NumPy arrays.
We saw how to create, manipulate,
modify, organize, and summarize 1D arrays.
But what does 1D even mean?
We will begin by importing NumPy.
This video you're going to
finally learn really what it means by saying 1D,
will make much more sense after this video.
But import numpy as np.
Before we actually see NumPy,
we will begin with list or a list of lists,
return back to base Python.
To begin, we have made list of lists before.
But this list of lists will be simple,
just two elements each element will
be a list of three values.
Now, a list number is a square bracket.
I want to have two lists.
In my list there are two lists separated by a colon.
Inside each list,
just going to type the integers,
the numbers 0 and 1,
so 0 and 1 three times.
Again, there are two lists here,
but I want to now do the same thing.
Do the same thing as above,
but let's include in more white space and spacing.
Let's make the outer list type the individual lists.
But before we type in the zeros in the 1s,
I'm going to hit Enter space.
I'm on a new line.
Now inside each of the individual lists,
I will type 0,
0, 0,
then 1, 1, 1.
Now even though I've gone to a new line,
this is just inside the cell.
It's inside where I'm typing the code.
Python couldn't care less,
you can see when I run this cell,
the output has the exact same format
as when we typed it in,
all on a single line.
Moving to two lines,
it helped my eyes.
I thought this was much easier to see.
I thought it was much more
apparent where one list ended and another one started.
Using separate lines makes
your code much cleaner and easier to read.
Especially if we would have say
many zeroes or any other thing that we type in here.
If I wanted to type all of this in one line,
it would be much more difficult to look at.
But separating them in multiple lines,
it's much more clear and easy to read.
But why are we doing this?
Well, when we separate the lists into multiple lines,
it now makes it look like there are in fact two rows.
Our list of zeros is
the first row and our list of 1s is the second row.
It also makes it look like there are columns,
every single row has a column of values,
or there are columns that intersect with those rows.
The intersection looks like
a cell in a spreadsheet like Excel.
Now please note, this idea of
a row versus a column has no concept in a Python list.
I've just organized my input to
the list so it's easier for me to read.
Let's assign our list of lists to an object.
I'll call it my list of lists,
two elements, new line, space.
Again, I'm following the exact same format,
but I'm assigning this to a variable.
Again, as a list,
Python does not care
about the spacing that I've used here.
This is just to make it easier on my eyes to read it in.
We check the environment you can see
my list of list is a list, it has length too.