Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/Aglor/advanced-plotting-with-seaborn

English (auto)
You're now going to look at some of the advanced plotting options that Seaborn library can
provide to us.
So one of the useful functionality that Seaborn provides is that we can actually combine multiple
views on the data.
We can use the join plot and pair plots functions to employ multiple kinds of plots from different
modules to represent different aspects of a data set in a single figure.
This is useful to combine these different perspectives that provides better insights
into understanding of the data.
For example, we can combine and scatter plot with marginal histogram or other distribution
to show both the relationship between the two variables as well as their individual
distribution.
So here allows us to add the different kinds of charts that we talked about, the relational
versus distribution, general versus categorical, they can actually be combined together into
one plot that would provide more insight into understanding the data.
This is particularly useful when you want to analyze bivariate relationships and gain
insight into how subsets differ within kind of the general relationship that you are observing.
So for example, we can do the join plot and here this is the central plot is the same
plot that we saw before, which is a relational plot that is plotting a scatter plot of the
total bills versus the tip, which point with the different points and colored by the time
variables representing lunch versus dinner.
And then what you can see on the marginal histograms along the top and the right axis
displays the distribution of these two variables.
So here we can see the distribution of on the right side, we can see the distribution
of the tip and again, the colors are representing lunch versus dinner.
And on the top, we can see the distribution of total bills.
So at the same time that we can see the relationship between these two variables, we can also see
how each of these variables are distributed themselves.
And we can see kind of all of these together.
And we can also see it for the this time variable of lunch versus dinner.
This is the code to create these join plot.
So you can see that you can, there is a function called join plot, and it has three, four parameters
in this case, the first parameter is providing the data set that we are using the tips data
set.
Then the next is providing the x and y variable.
So in this case, the total bill and tip, and then we are providing the variable to be used
for depicting different the data in different colors.
So we are using time in this case to have that as a distinguishing color.
Another way that we can combine plots is using per plot, which is used to create a grid of
a scatterplot for every pairs of possible, every possible pairs of numeric variables
in the data set.
So in this case, that our data set has basically three numerical variables of total bill, the
tip and the size of the party at and has like categorical variables of time.
So when you create actually a per plot, you can see actually add all of these different
combination of these variables.
So per plot is similar to join plot.
It combines joint and marginal views, but rather than focusing on a single relationship,
it visualizes every pair was combination of variables simultaneously.
In this example, you can see we have created a per plot for tips data set, which is a grid
of a scatter plots for every pair of numeric variables in our data set, along with histograms
along the diagonal to show each variables distribution.
So here you can see the both on the diagonal, the histograms of each of the variables, and
then see every pair was relationships as well.
And this is the code that generates this a simple line of per plot, and you're providing
basically just the data set of because it's looking at all of the possible variables in
the data set.
And if you want to provide any kind of categorical variables for changing the color and distinguishing
the using the color to distinguish across that category.
We can also control the aesthetics of the figure and controlling aesthetics always helps
to communicate better about the visualization.
So effective communication of quantitative insights to an audience depends on having
figures that catch the attention and drive you're in.
And Seaborn comes with a number of customized themes that and a high level interface for
controlling the look of matplotlibs figures.
So you can basically have like the figures that are created and then use Seaborn as a
way of manipulating how they look like.
So it's easier to communicate the information to the readers.
Drawing attractive figures are important when making figures for yourself as you explore
a data set.
It's nice to have plots that are pleasant to look at.
So even if you're just doing this maybe for an assignment, but if you're doing it for
work, then it's even more important to have these visualizations that are effectively
communicating the data.
Visualizations are also central to communicating quantitative insights to an audience.
And in that setting, it's even more necessary to have figures that catch the attention and
drive you're in.
Matplotlib is highly customizable, but it can be hard to know what setting to tweak
to achieve an attractive plot.
Seaborn comes with a number of customized themes and a high level interface that makes
it very easy to make those sorts of customization and make kind of the figure looks better.
So we can look at some of these in the next slides.
So here you can see that in this example, we have used the default theme options available
in Seaborn to add the grid to the graph.
The grid, in this case, helps the plot to serve as a lookup table for quantitative information.
And the white and gray helps to keep the grid from competing with the lines that represent
the data.
So we are basically adding kind of these visual elements into the graph that makes it easier
to read.
And these are just by very small kind of changes in the code that we can make these aesthetic
changes.
You can have these different themes that you can use.
There are five preset Seaborn themes, dark grid, white grid, dark, white, and text.
They are each suited to different applications and personal preferences.
The default theme is the dark grid, which is what you have seen in previous slides as
well.
The white grid theme is similar, but it is better suited to plot with heavy data elements,
such as in this case, the box plot that you can see in this figure, that there is a lot
going on in the box plot.
So you don't want to have a background that kind of distracts the audience from focusing
on the most important parts of the visualization.
And to basically set these slides, the code is what you can see here.
You can set the slides styles to white grid, and then you just basically create the box
plot.
In this case, our data is just a randomly generated numbers, and then the line box plot
basically draws the box plot with whatever data set that you have provided.
You can also scale the plot elements.
Seaborn splits MapPlotWidth parameters into two independent groups.
The first group sets the aesthetic style of the plot, which is what we looked at it,
and the second scales various elements of the figure so that it can be easily incorporated
into different contexts.
So as you create visualization, you have different purposes for the visualization.
You might want to use it in a presentation, which is different than if you want to use
it maybe in a paper or a poster.
A separate set of parameters control the scale of the plot elements, which should let you
use the same code to make plots that are suited for use in settings with larger or
smaller plots are appropriate.
The four preset contexts in the order of the relative size are paper, notebook, talk, poster.
The notebook style is the default style.
So here you can see the distinguishing of the first one, paper, on the left side.
The second one on the right side is the setting of talk.
And then in now next one, you can see the poster setting, and you can see how the scale
of the same graph is basically changing, making it more appropriate for different size and
different contexts.