Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/UT9Pk/introduction-to-seaborn-library

English (auto)
In this module, we're going to look at another Python library,
which helps us do more data visualization and more advanced charting in Python.
This library is called Seaborn library.
The Seaborn library is building on top of
Matplotlib and integrates closely with Pandas data structure.
Seaborn library is useful for doing statistical graphics in Python.
And as I said, it builds on top of Matplotlib
and integrates with Pandas data structure
that makes it easier to incorporate a different source of data into the visualization.
Seaborn helps you explore and understand your data.
Its plotting functions operate on data frames and arrays containing whole data sets.
Its dataset-oriented API lets you focus on what the different elements of your plot means
rather than on the details of how to draw them.
So here is an example of the same sort of plotting done both in Matplotlib and in Seaborn.
The top visualization is done in Matplotlib and the bottom is done in Seaborn.
You can see that with the same or even fewer lines of code,
you can create a plotting which looks nicer than what you can do in Matplotlib in a much quicker and easier way.
So let's look at an example of a code to create a chart in Seaborn.
Similar to other libraries, we first need to import Seaborn.
And Seaborn is the only library that we need to import in this example or in this case.
And by convention, it is imported with the shorthand of SNS.
So that's what you can see in the first two lines here of the code.
We then specify the overall appearance of the plot using the setTheme function.
You're going to see more details of the things that you can do actually with this setTheme function.
In Seaborn that sets, if you're not providing any parameters in this case,
as you can see in this line of the code,
sets the default aesthetic parameters for all of the plots in this visualization.
It allows you to specify overall appearance of your plots in general,
such as the color palette, background style, and other plot properties
without having to set these parameters repeatedly for individual plots.
We'll look at this in more details in a little bit later in this module.
We download the data set, which will be used for visualization.
So that's the line which is loading the load data using the load data set.
And in this case, we are loading a built-in data set in Seaborn called tips,
which contains information about restaurant bills.
And then the next is basically creating a visualization using one of the plotting functions,
REL plot, which this is a relational, to create a relational plot,
which shows the relationship between two numeric variables.
In this case, the code is visualizing how tips vary with the total built-in tips data set.
So you can see like the first parameter is providing which data set we are using,
the data equal to tips.
The second variables is providing our x variables and the third one is the y variables.
These are basically the two variables that the relational plot is going to show the relationship.
So it's going to show the relationship between the amount of the total bills to the amount of tip.
And then the rest of the parameters basically are providing additional information for the plot.
So the COL creates separate plots for each category in the time column,
which is one of the variables in the data set that provides whether it's a lunchtime or a dinnertime.
So here we can see basically two columns, one for lunch, one for dinner.
And then Hugh is using another variable in data set by setting the colors for the different values of that variable.
So if the person is a smoker versus if they're not a smoker,
so that would have like different color in the visualization.
And then the style variable uses different markers for again, smokers versus non-smoker.
And the size, which is also using another variable in the data set,
the size here in this case is the size of the dinner party,
how many people were in the party and uses that information to adjust the size.
So this code will be generating two scatterplots that we're going to see in the next slide,
side by side, one for lunch and one for dinner, showing how the total bill relates to the tip amount.
And then the points will be colored and shaped differently for smokers versus non-smokers.
And their size will represent the party size.
This makes it easy to analyze the impact of these variables and the tipping behavior across different scenarios.
So you can see that in a very little amount of code,
actually, you can incorporate a lot of information into the visualization.
And here is what you can see if you run that code.
So you can see that we have two columns, one for lunch, one for dinner.
And then you can see basically the different markers, the blue dots versus the orange crosses for the smokers or non-smokers.
And then the range of the sizes of these dots for the size of the party.
So representing from one person in the party to the sixth person in the party.
So you can, as I mentioned earlier, you can use the setTheme function to set additional context and change the aesthetic of the visualization to help understand the visualization,
to help the reader understand the visualization even better.
So some of the variables that you can provide here, one is the style, which basically controls the overall style.
That could be work, dark, white grid, dark grid, or ticks.
And I'm going to show you some examples of those in the next slides.
You can provide the color palette that is used.
And there are different variables like deep, muted, bright, or pastel in this case.
You can provide the context that is adjusting the scale of the plot elements into whether this is a presentation for a paper,
or it's a visualization appropriate for a paper versus notebook versus talk or posters or different contexts,
which actually makes it easy to adjust the visualization.
So here you can see the example of using the white grid instead of what we had before,
visualization of the code in that slides that used basically the grayscale.
You can just change that parameters to white grid and see basically different default size.