Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/eH9WN/seaborn-plotting-functions

English (auto)
We're going to continue looking at plotting abilities that Seaborn Python library can provide to us.
In general, corresponding to different ways of visualizing data depending on the nature of the relationship
and properties of data and data types that we discussed in previous module as well,
we can have different groups of plotting functions that Seaborn provides.
The Seaborn plots could be one of these three categories, relational plots that visualize the relationship
between two or more numeric variables, categorical plots that are useful for comparing variables grouped
by different categories, and distributional plots that will help us understand the distribution of a single variable.
So let's look at each of these categories in a little bit more detail.
The relational plots, as I just mentioned, are helpful for visualizing the relationship between two or more numeric variables.
There are several different functions that could allow you to do these kinds of relational plots,
like the rel plot that we saw in the previous lesson, scatter plot, which shows individual data points,
and it is useful for visualizing relationship between two continuous variables.
The line plot, which is basically drawing a line plot and is connecting data points typically used for time series data or trends.
Relational plots are used typically to understand how two numeric variables relate to each other,
and they're useful for analyzing patterns looking in trends or clusters in a data set.
Here is an example of the relational plots that we saw in the previous lesson as well,
which is using the TIPS data set and showing the relationship between the two variables of total build and the amount of TIP.
As you can see, here is a two column relational plots that is showing for the different times using that variable in the data set
to allow to see the patterns and analyze the relationship between the amount of TIPS and total build over the lunch and dinner.
So you can see like that in this case, for example, the relationship seem to follow similar patterns of linear relationship that as the build is increasing,
the amount of TIP is also increasing, but you can also see some of the outliers and also the differences between the smokers and non-smokers
that are presented by different markers and different colors here.
Distribution plots display the distribution of a single numeric variable or compare distributions across different subsets.
The main functions that you can use for distribution of plots are histoplot, which creates a histogram to show the frequency of data within different ranges,
the kernel density plot, which draws a kernel density estimate plot, a smooth curve representing the distribution of the variable or the variables,
and boxplot that visualizes the distribution of data using quartiles, highlighting median, spread, and the potential outliers.
The typical use cases for distribution of plots are to understand the distribution of a single variable and to compare the distribution between different groups.
So here is an example using the same TIPS dataset that we are plotting a histogram here of looking actually at the distribution of the TIP.
And we are able to actually separate this histogram plot also by the different variables in the dataset.
In this case, we are again using the time variable in our dataset, which is separating lunch or dinner.
And you can see how basically the TIP is distributed, and you can see how it's more kind of a skewed distribution than, for example, a normal distribution.
And here the variable of multiple allows to actually stack these different time histogram on top of each other using the different colors to represent them.
Categorical plots are useful for displaying relationships between categorical variables or between categorical and numeric variables.
The main functions that exist in Seaborn that help you create categorical plots are catplot, barplot, and boxplot.
The catplot is a versatile function that can create different types of categorical plots, such as strips, run, box, or barplots.
The barplot is basically to create a barplot or a bar chart, as we know.
And the boxplot is to create boxplots.
And they can be used in categorical context to show the distribution of a numeric variable for each category.
So that's kind of what the boxplot is most useful.
Same as barplot is also allowing you to look at the numeric variables for different categories.
Here is an example of a barplot using the same data sets that we have been looking, the TIPS data set.
Here are X variables, which is representing the categories or the day of the week.
And the Y is the numerical value of the TIPS for that particular day.
Here you can see using one of the other aspects that we mentioned, you can actually use a pastel palette color that you can see you have with these pastel colors here.
And the other thing is that you can also add other variables here.
In this case, you can add the confidence interval to represent the standard deviation, which are basically these additional lines that you can see.
So here you can, for example, see that interestingly seems to be that the TIP maybe is higher on Sunday and the average amount of TIP.
Though when you look at kind of the confidence interval, it seems like that the TIP is the same across different days.