Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/rH0ke/analyzing-the-confidence-intervals-and-coefficients

English
What I typically like to do,
I will extract the 95% confidence interval bounds
and store the estimate with
the standard error with the bounds.
Let's assign this to the result of
co-et_fit_ info = lm_fit.
conf_int apply the rename method to the columns.
Now I'm using the key value pair
dictionary, ci_lower,1, ci_upper.
Now add in a column for the estimate,
which is equal to lm_fit_params,
and then add in a column for
the estimate standard error, lm_fit_bse.
If you're wondering why it's called bse,
do you remember in my math notation,
I typically call the slopes Betas?
This is historical convention
for slopes in applied statistics,
the Beta or B parameters.
Now, we have a single DataFrame where
the index in that
DataFrame are the coefficients we're estimating,
the intercept and the slope.
We have the lower and upper
bound of the confidence interval.
We have the estimate itself that
minimizes the sum of squared errors,
and we have the standard error on that estimate.
All contained in one place.
Now, if we go back up to the summary table,
there's really one additional piece
of information that I haven't talked about yet.
It's this really funky looking thing
where p is greater than
the absolute value of t. This is known as the p-value,
and the p-values it's
really important for historical reasons.
It's overplayed.
It actually isn't as important as
journal articles will make you think it is.
Let me put in some text here.
We can extract the p-values for
the coefficients using the.p-values attribute.
This is an attribute, not a method.
The p-value is described
as something really magical and important.
It is used to identify statistically significant inputs.
A statistically if I didn't spell that right.
Significant input is one that has
a p-value typically less than 0.05.
That is the common convention.
If the p-value is less than 0.05,
we have a statistically significant feature
or statistically significant input.
Essentially, you have lm.fit_p-value less than 0.05.
You see how x is true,
that means the input x is considered by
common convention statistically significant.
But the p-value is nothing magic or special.
In fact, it can be completely
described using a simple graphic.
Let's visualize the coefficient estimates as markers
in a scatter plot and
the confidence intervals as error bars.
Now, this figure,
I wish it was easier to make in Seaborn,
but unfortunately, we have to drop down to Matplotlib.
We need to use the Matplotlib axis level or axis
object.error bar method to
visualize the confidence interval.
As a reminder, we have the color fit info,
where we've organized everything,
or we can use
the attributes and methods of the fitted object directly.
I'm going to use the estimates or
I'm going to use our object that we compiled here.
But again, Matplotlib I've said before it's dangerous,
and it's set up in
a very strange manner for handling error bars.
The error bar method wants us to
provide the value of the error around the marker,
rather than the limits of the interval.
Therefore, I typically create
the following coefficient plot visualization
using the approximation based
on two times the standard error.
What I'm about to show you is just an approximation,
but it works really,
really well, and it is,
in fact, it's less work and it's easier to create.
It will make more sense once I make it.
The first thing we have to do is
initialize the figure and axis objects,
and now use the error bar method to show
the estimates as markers
and confidence intervals as error bars.
Create a horizontal error bar.
It will be horizontal.
The name of the variable will be on the y-axis,
and the coefficient value will be the
x-axis, ax.error bar.
The y value, I will use the CMF fit info index.
The x value will be the MCF fit info estimate.
The x error bar,
so look closely at these arguments,
the value on the y-axis,
the value on the x-axis,
and now the x-axis error is
two times the estimate standard error.
Then plt_ show.