Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/2lwEE/planning-the-visualizations

English
But this week, we will make
more figures in Matplotlib directly rather than seaborn.
The reason why you'll see in a few minutes.
But let's create the same kind
of line chart in Matplotlib.
Since we're working in Matplotlib,
we should initialize the figure in axis objects,
fig, ax equals plt.subplots.
Then we need to use the ax.plot,
the.plot method, where now in Matplotlib,
we have to specify the actual x and y arguments directly,
we cannot use the strings
to identify columns from a DataFrame.
I personally can't stand Matplotlib because we are
arbitrarily choosing objects in
our environment to create the plot.
Whereas in seaborn,
seaborn is much more consistent and tidy in
that we have to start
every graphic with a particular dataset.
It makes us be much more consistent.
It makes us have much better workflows
for going from data objects to graphics.
But unfortunately, seaborn can't do everything we need.
Because of that, this week we have to revert back
to the adhoc and dangerous Matplotlib.
Here, x and y,
if we do plt.show,
we don't get any axis labels
and so we need to set the x label,
and we need to set the y label.
Something that will be useful in a few minutes,
we can also change the color.
We can use the common notation or short cut K for black,
R for red, G for green,
or we could even use longer names such as
crimson and we could
increase the line width with the line width argument.
The bigger this value is,
the thicker the line, the smaller the value
is the thinner the line.
Now, the reason why I wanted to talk
about working in Matplotlib,
even though we haven't done that in a while,
we've focused on seaborn is because
we will now visualize the variation
around the trend or we will visualize
the uncertainty of a single output measurement
around the average output.
Last week, when we were randomly
generating the random output around the trend,
we ultimately visualized this variation
with violin plots and box plots.
We saw that there was
a bell curve or a Gaussian distribution
centered along the trend with
a constant width or variability around that trend.
Even though the input was changing,
that caused the average output to change.
The width around the average
was a constant number because
linear models assume a constant level
of variation around the mean.
The likelihood of an output
around the trend is a Gaussian distribution.
The variation of a Gaussian is specified
by the standard deviation or Sigma
so we need to specify
the Sigma that controls
the level of variation around the trend.
I'm going to set my Sigma to be 1.25.
If I chose a smaller number,
such as something less than one,
the level of variation would be smaller around the trend.
If I chose something much larger than one,
the level of variation would be
even wider around the trend.
But here, I'm just going to go with 1.25.
Last week, we randomly generated
many replications of output around
the trend to show
the constant variation around the trend.
This week, we will summarize
that level of variation using ribbons.
This is ultimately why we are using
Matplotlib more this week
because the creation of ribbons
is not something seaborn is great at.
We will see how ribbons can be made,
but we have to drop down
to Matplotlib to make the ribbons.
Ribbons are defined by
lower and upper bounds that correspond
to lower and upper bounds of intervals.
The ribbon will therefore
display the uncertainty interval.
Because the linear model has
a Gaussian likelihood or distribution,
the uncertainty can be easily
summarized as the number
of standard deviations around the mean.
Specifically, we will use,
now let me use the math notation,
plus or minus one Sigma and
the plus or minus two Sigma intervals around the mean.
These correspond to the 68%
and the roughly 95% uncertainty intervals.
Plus or minus one standard deviation
and the plus or minus two standard deviation.
Let's go ahead and create the bounds on
these two intervals as
columns in our visualization DataFrame.
Obs will stand for observation,
the lower bound for the 68% uncertainty interval
or the one Sigma interval.
This is equal to the trend minus the standard deviation.
Whereas the upper bound on the one standard deviation or
68% uncertainty interval is
the trend plus the standard deviation.