Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/ZkwU4/quantifying-measurement-uncertainty-and-visualizing-intervals

English
Okay, let's now specify the level of variation or
uncertainty of a single measurement around the trend.
Last week we used a sigma of 0.01 for this sine wave example,
but this week let's increase it to 0.5,
or how about even smaller, 0.33?
We'll make it 3.33 times bigger than what we had last week.
So my sigma equals 0.33.
The output or a single measurement
of the output is normally
distributed around the mean.
And just as in the previous video,
let's summarize the variation using the 68% and
95% uncertainty intervals.
The 68% uncertainty interval is plus or
minus 1 standard deviations around the mean.
So let's calculate its lower and upper bounds.
The OBS or observation lower bound for
the 68% uncertainty interval is the trend minus sigma,
whereas the observations upper bound for
the 68% uncertainty interval is the trend plus sigma.
The observations lower bound on the 95% uncertainty
interval is the trend minus 2 times sigma,
whereas the observations upper bound of the 95%
uncertainty interval is the trend plus 2 times sigma.
So again, these very simple formulas are giving us
some really powerful pieces of information.
The measurement has a 68% chance to be within 1 standard
deviation of the mean, and the measurement has a 95% chance
of being within 2 standard deviations of the mean.
Just as in the previous video,
even though the input gives us one value of the trend,
there's an interval that represents where a single measurement will be located.
So even though at this first value of the input,
the expected output is 0.25, well, there's a 95%
chance the measurement is between negative 0.4 and 0.91.
Let's visualize the uncertainty of the measurement using ribbons.
So this figure is organized just like the figure created in
the previous video where we initialize the figure in axis objects.
Then we will show the true trend, then represent
the variation around the trend by showing 2 intervals.
The first will be the 2 sigma interval, then the 1 sigma interval.
We will set the labels and show the plot.
So let me first write plt_show the true trend,
the plot method on the ax object df_viz.x, df_viz.trend.
Again, color is crimson and then we'll set the line width,
it's exactly what we had previously, but
now the plus or minus 2 sigma interval.
We need the fill_between method of the ax object.
The x variable is the x column from df_viz.
The lower bound, I want to show the lower bound
on the 95% uncertainty interval, followed by the upper bound.
So again, the ribbon needs the position on the x-axis,
the lower bound, and the upper bound.
Let's set the face color to also be the same as
the line color, but change the transparency.
Do you see that area around the mean?
Sorry, there's a 95% chance the measurements will be in that area.
This spot that I'm showing on the screen, this circle, there's basically
a 0% chance we'll see measurements of the output at this input location.
However, when the input changes, now we have a 95% chance to
see measurements within that same interval at that input location.
That's not because the level of variation is changing.
The level of variation is actually the same, but the location,
the mean output is changing as the input is changing.
Let's follow the same procedure to make the ribbon
using the fill_between method again, but this time,
we are using the 68% or 1 sigma interval around the mean.
Again, the same color for the face color,
and set the alpha, and now set the labels,
the xlabel is, oops, x, the ylabel is y.
Again, the inner ribbon,
there's a 68% chance we will see a measurement somewhere in that interval.
The outer ribbon, 95% chance we'll see a measurement within that interval.