Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/mAGII/setting-up-the-coefficients-and-producing-trend

English
[FOREIGN] Hello, everyone. As you can see,
I have Jupiter already opened up.
I'm in the folder for this week,
the tenth week of the class CMPINF 2100.
I'm going to go ahead and launch a new Jupiter notebook.
If you need to pause
the recording to start Jupiter, please do so now.
When you unpause it, you come back,
then let's rename this notebook
to week_10_review_lm_linear because in this recording,
we're going to review some of
the key assumptions of linear models,
and we will focus on linear relationships.
Let's now put in our header information,
CMPINF 2100 Week 10,
Review, generate linear model data.
We will review important assumptions of
linear models by generating data from a linear model.
We will use a single input that is linearly
related to the mean output or trend.
Let's go ahead and import the modules.
In this notebook, all we need are the big four.
You need to import numpy as np,
import pandas as pd,
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt,
and seaborn as sns.
It's a big four.
Let's now define the relationship.
As already stated, we will use
a single continuous input
that is linearly related to the trend.
I'll type in the formula for that,
where I define the trend as the Greek letter,
Mu, which is equal to the intercept
plus the slope times the input.
To generate the data,
we need to specify the true intercept and the true slope.
We then must calculate the trend or
average output for a given input value.
Then we will randomly generate
output observations around the trend
using a Gaussian random number generator.
Again, this touches all of
the major assumption of the linear model.
To help things out, though,
let's first visualize behavior
before randomly generating our output.
We must calculate the trend.
We must specify the true coefficient values.
This is my problem,
I'm defining it, I'm creating it.
I want my intercept to have a value of 0.25,
and I want my slope to have a value of -1.5.
The object my intercept is the math notation of Beta_0,
and the object my slope
corresponds to the math notation of Beta_1.
The slope is the coefficient that multiplies the input.
It tells us how much the trend
the average output will change
for one unit change of the input.
I ain't picking these numbers.
I could have picked different numbers,
but this is what I am using for this problem.
Let's create a dataset of
input values to support visualizing behavior.
I will name this object
df_viz to stand for DataFrame for visualization.
It is a DataFrame,
so I need the pd.DataFrame function to create it.
Now I will use the dictionary notation where the key
x has a value that is a NumPy 1D array from -3.5 to 3.5,
and there will be 101 evenly spaced values
between those two endpoints.
So I'm using mp.linspace to generate the 1D array.
This DataFrame has one column, x.
Let's now calculate the trend or
average output given the input.
The average is a function of or depends on the input.
I'm defining a new column.
I'm adding a column to my df_viz DataFrame,
which is equal to my intercept
plus my slope times the input.
I'm accessing that input
using the dot notation from the DataFrame.
There are now two columns.
The first, the zeroth column in Python terminology,
the column x, that's our input.
Then the trend column,
that's the trend or the average output.
Let's visualize the trend with respect
to the input as a line chart.
We can make the line chart in Seaborn,
and I'm going to set the style to be white grid,
so we have the grid lines.
A line chart is a relationship or relplot.
All Seaborn graphics start with data,
so we have data = df_viz,
then x = x,
y = trend, kind = line.
The intercept tells us
the value of the trend when the input is zero.
As you can see here,
the trend is not zero when the input
is zero because our intercept is not zero.
The trend is decreasing as the input
increases because we have a negative slope.