Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/AP3GE/visualizing-random-outputs-and-uncertainty-intervals

English
These outputs are randomly distributed around the trend,
therefore, the observed or random output does not perfectly equal the trend.
There's some error, some uncontrollable variation that we cannot explain.
Let's now visualize the randomly generated output around the trend.
And to make this easy, I'm scrolling back up and
copying what we coded previously for these ribbons.
So I'm copying this code,
because I don't want to have to retype all that code instance, that is a lot.
And if I run this code, we've just made the same ribbon.
But after the one sigma interval ribbon, I'm putting in a new line.
And let's now include the randomly
generated small data set as a scatterplot.
A scatterplot in matplotlib can be made using
the scatter method associated with an axis object.
This syntax is similar to the plot method where
the 0th argument is the x-axis values,
the 1th argument is the y-axis values, and then we can set the color.
Do you see those black dots?
Those are the random outputs y,
which are randomly distributed around the mean.
If we count how many observations are within
the one standard deviation interval,
we have one, two, three, four.
That's four out of nine.
Now, that does not equal 68%, but remember,
we only have 9 data points here.
68%, it's greater than half, but we're on the order of a half.
And if we would get picky we could say, hey, maybe this one's really,
really close as is this one.
So we're anywhere from 4 to 6 out of 9 with at least near that plus or
minus 1 standard deviation interval.
The other thing that stands out here is all
9 are within that outer ribbon.
And remember, the outer ribbon is the 95% uncertainty interval.
This ribbon says there's a 95% chance you will have
a random data point within these lower and upper bounds.
And if you look closely, right, those lower and
upper bounds change as your input changes, but the width is the same.
The bounds change, because the average changes.
The location, the midpoint of those bounds are changing as the input changes.
But we have all 9 out of 9 within this interval.
Again, it's a small data set, if we would have 1,000
random observations, we should expect 95% of them,
950 of them, to be within the bounds of that outer ribbon.
So again, why did I want to discuss, how do you calculate the trend?
It's a function of the input.
Why did I want to discuss the Gaussian distribution?
Besides reviewing the assumption of the linear model,
it's a useful way of interpreting where the data points can be located,
where we could expect to see measurements of the output.
We expect measurements on average at the trend.
But where single individual data points will be collected,
they are random around that trend.
The uncertainty interval tells us where they
can occur from where they cannot occur.
Let's save this small data set so
we can ultimately fit models to it.
But for bookkeeping purposes,
Let's store the true coefficients and
sigma that generated the data.
So I'm going to add three new columns to df,
the true intercept which is equal to my intercept,
the true slope, which is equal to my slope, and
the true sigma, which is equal to my sigma.
These true parameters are constant.
The intercept is the same value for every single input value.
The slope is the same value for every single input value.
And remember, sigma, the standard deviation around the mean output,
the trend is constant.
So I wanted to include these as one final reminder that
the parameters of the linear model are constant and
do not depend on your input or your output.
Let's now go ahead and
save the data frame to a CSV
file, df.to_csv.
The main argument we need to provide is the path or file name.
And let's name this week_10_linear_data.csv and
set the index to false.
I don't want to write the index.
Running that line of code,
if we go back to Jupyter itself into the file manager,
you can now see there's a CSV file in our folder.
And just to confirm it worked,
let's read back the data to confirm we saved it correctly.
Pd_read_csv_week_10-linear_data.csv, and
I'm not going to assign this.
I'm just running the code, it reads it in.
You can see the data are the same, so we have saved it as we expected to.
We will be using this data set later and
to fit a model to predict the output given the input.
Okay, so again, I hope this video helped confirm what was learned
last week with all of the assumptions of the linear model.
That's all for this video, take care.