Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/qbWEL/networkx-overview-and-features

English (auto)
In this module, we are going to be applying some of the knowledge that we learned in the last module in terms of networks and learn how we can use Python to visualize and analyze a network.
Specifically, we are going to learn about using NetworkX Python library.
Why would we want to use Python for network visualization?
Because it does have these rich libraries like NetworkX that work well with some of the libraries that we have seen in the previous modules as well like MapPlotLib or Plotly
and allows you to both do the analysis and be able to create plots and visualization.
It has a lot of flexibility for customization as you will see in ways that we can change different parameters and different characteristics of the visualization.
And it integrates well with data analysis and machine learning workflows, which is important when we think about network analysis.
So NetworkX is the Python library for creating, manipulating, and analyzing network data.
It has built-in methods for graph constructions, basic network metrics such as decreasing triality measures that we saw in the last module, and for visualizing the network.
Some of the key features of this Python library is that it supports various types of graphs, including undirected graph, directed graph represented by DI graph, undirected is represented by graph,
multigraphs, which is represented by multigraph and could be both directed or indirected, and multigraph is about graphs that there could be more than one edge between nodes.
And nodes and edges can also have attributes such as labels, weight, or metadata associated with them.
It also provides, has functions and built-in functions for doing different kinds of analysis of the graph and network, including centrality measures like degree, closeness, betweenness, and eigenvector centrality.
Easily, you can calculate shortest path. It uses algorithms commonly used for shortest path. You can use it for clustering and community detection using modularity-based clustering and for graph connectivity, both identifying strongly and weakly connected components within a graph.
It also provides support for real-world graphs, handles graphs with thousands of millions of nodes and edges efficiently and pretty fast. It has built-in functions for importing and exporting data in popular formats such as agency list, agency list, edge list, GML, GraphML, and JSON.
When you start working with network data, the data that are available in different resources, as will be provided for this module as well, are actually provided in this format. A lot of time it's GML or JSON or edge list.
And so this makes it easy to whatever those formats are, you can easily import that into creating the network using NetworkX. It's open source with a modular design, making it easy to extend or integrate it with other libraries that we have seen such as Pandas or SciPy.