Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/PktaF/graph-visualization-methods

English (auto)
In this lesson, we are going to be looking at
the network layouts and how
the layouts can be represented in different network visualization.
As we saw in the first lesson also,
that there are different kinds of network visualization layouts
that would represent how
the nodes and edges in the network are visualized.
Some of the common layouts are first directed layout,
circular layout, tree layout,
radial and grid layout,
and we're going to be looking at how each of these look like,
and when would we use one over the other,
when we think about network visualization.
First directed layout is a popular method which basically
arranges nodes and edges by
simulating physical forces acting on them.
It basically positions the nodes in such a way that edges are of
similar length and there are minimal overlap or crossing
resulting in more pleasing and easy to interpret graph,
as you can see in this example here.
Some of the strengths of using
first directed layout is that it works well for
medium size and unstructured graph.
It automatically reveals clusters or communities
within the network as you can see here,
for example, the nodes highlighted as red
or the nodes on different corners of this network as well.
It minimizes edge crossing,
which makes the visualization easier to read.
Common use cases for these layout is social networks,
biological networks, or knowledge graphs.
The next layout is a circular layout,
which is a graph visualization techniques
where all nodes are arranged on the circumferences of a circle,
and edges are drawn either inside or outside of that circle.
The strength of the circular layout is its neutrality.
It's placing all vertices and equal distances
from each other and from the center of the drawing.
None is given a privileged position,
countering the tendency of viewers to
perceive more centrally located node as more important,
which is the case in the layout that we saw before.
Common use cases for circular layouts are things like core diagrams,
again, biological networks, or group comparisons.
The next layout is a tree layout,
which organizes nodes in a hierarchical manner,
starting from a root node and expanding upward in levels.
It is particularly effective for representing
parent-child relationship.
That's what's the nature in the network,
like organizational structure, for example.
As you can see in this example,
I'm showing the CEO and the VPs and so on.
The strength of a tree layout is that it
clearly shows the hierarchical relationship.
If that's what is in the nature of the data that you're working with,
then that makes it more visible like
taxonomies of organizational structures.
It's easy to interpret large trees or flowcharts,
because you can actually focus on different parts of
this layout and understand each part separately.
It prevents overlap,
making it very scalable for large dataset.
The common use cases of that is organizational charts,
file systems, trees, or networks like that.
The radial layout is similar to circular layout.
The radial layout places a central node in the middle
with all other nodes arranged in concentric circles around it.
Nodes that are further from the center
are less related to the central node.
What's different than the circle is that you
still have that distance as well.
It almost looks like a combination,
a circle versus a tree layout together.
Each part of the circle can have
that separate tree structures that has its own meaning as well.
The strength of the radial layout is that it emphasizes a central node or entity,
making it ideal for showing the importance of a single node in a hierarchical network,
and allows for clear visualization of different levels of importance or influence.
It's useful for a large network where centrality of one node matters.
Common use cases of that is influence networks,
hierarchical data, and network centrality analysis.
Particularly when we want to do network analysis,
that maybe focuses on a specific node,
so more of egocentric network analysis as well.
The last one is a grid layout,
which nodes are arranged in a grid-like structure.
This regular positioning is useful for a structured graph like matrices or lattices,
and can help compare agents as nodes.
That's particularly useful like in this example that you
can see in representing, for example, the city structures.
The strength of a grid layout is that it provides a clean,
organized appearance, especially for a small graphs or bipartite graphs,
ideal for a structured graph such as matrices or regular grids,
and it simplifies comparison between adjacent nodes or categories.
Common use cases are for bipartite graphs,
lattice networks, or agency matrices,
or as you can see here in these ads representing city structures,
which is an example of a lattice network.
How do we choose now the right layout?
First, directed layout is best for general use cases,
where a graph structure is complex and community detection is important.
Sequeral layout works well for symmetric relationships or when comparing groups.
Tree layout is ideal for hierarchical structure like organizations.
Radio layout is useful when emphasizing a central node or entity,
and grid layout is perfect for a structure of bipartite networks.
You can have this in mind as you do network visualization,
and you try to decide which layout to show.
In the next module,
you will learn how to use Python to actually do network visualization,
and the network layout is one of
the parameters that you can always identify as you're creating network visualization.
In addition to Python,
which is what we are going to be seeing in terms of learning how to do network visualization,
there are also tools that already exist that provide
a graphical user interface for doing network visualization.
Examples of that would be Gephi and Ciderscape.
Both are open-source tools that could be used for network analysis.
Gephi is particularly good for larger networks,
and Ciderscape is designed for biological networks and networks such as that.
You can also use Tableau that we saw in the last module
for interactive visualization around network as well.