Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/kF0YO/introduction-to-networks

English (auto)
In this module, we are going to be looking into networks,
visualization, and understanding networks.
Specifically in this module,
we'll spend some time learning more about networks,
what networks are, how do we represent networks,
some of the theories and models of understanding networks.
Then the next module,
you will learn how to put some of these knowledge into
practice by learning how to use Python to visualize,
and create some network visualization.
What is a network?
It's really a set of nodes and edges.
Nodes are referred with different names such as actors,
vertices, or points,
and these could be anything from computers, telephones,
articles, books, or people,
and then edges between these nodes that are also referred to as ties,
arcs, links, or lines,
and these are basically the relations that connect a pair of nodes together.
There are many different examples of networks,
and networks and network analysis is pretty essential in
understanding all these different concepts in different parts of the society.
Networks could be social networks,
which basically are social structures representing
relationships and interactions between individuals,
groups, or organizations.
They can be biological networks that they're representing relationships
between proteins, genes, or other biological entities.
They could be related to epidemiology,
representing the spread of diseases through population.
They can be communication networks that represents
communication between different devices and information,
which is exchanged between these different devices.
They can be financial networks that they represent financial institutions,
and markets, or individuals,
and then the transaction that happens between them.
Many more such as transportation, knowledge, ecological,
citation, and a lot of different examples that basically you will see as we go through the modules,
but also probably in different parts of life as we interact with different networks.
In all of these, for example,
in financial networks,
then the institutions, and the markets,
or individuals are nodes,
and those transactions are the edges.
When we think about social networks,
then people are the nodes,
and then the relationships and interaction between them are the edges.
When we think about biological networks,
then the genes are the nodes,
and those entities and relationship between the genes are the edges within the net.
Now, let's look at some of the basic concepts in representing
networks and in understanding of networks.
When we look at actually these set of nodes,
as I mentioned, a node can be called different names such as actor,
then a group of two nodes that are connected are referred to as a dyad,
and a group of three nodes that are all also connected together,
or this could be actually more than three,
when all of the nodes are connected together,
that is called a clique.
When we think about these edges and relationships between the nodes,
the edges can actually be different and representing
different kinds of interaction and relationship.
A lot of times, we represent these by the concepts
of the strengths of these relationships and these ties.
We can have strong versus weak ties,
that would refer to more versus less frequent interaction.
If this is a case of a social network,
then basically, a strong relationship means feeling closer to someone,
having a lot of interaction with them,
knowing them well, versus a weak tie and weak edge,
would mean relationship that are with people that maybe we
just have met or don't have a lot of communications with.
When we visually represent this in terms of the visualization,
often we use the thickness of the line as a way of
representing this strength of the ties.
Also, the relationships and these edges could be directed or undirected.
When it's undirected in the case of the top example,
then that represents relationships that are basically two-way relationships.
Then when it's directed,
it represents relationships that are one-way and the direction actually matters.
Many of our interactions,
when we think about social networks,
are basically two-way undirected relationships,
like friendship is usually a two-way relationship.
People consider, if they are friends with someone,
the person to be their friend as well.
But there are also many relationships that those are more of one-way interactions,
so like borrowing or lending is a one-way relationship,
and so it has actually a direction into it.
But you could, at the same time,
have these arrows that go both ways if
someone is both borrowing and lending from the same person.
Then depending on these kinds of relationships and edges that exist,
we can also have different kinds of networks.
We can have undirected versus directed networks.
The undirected is when the relationships have
no direction like the friendship network,
and then the directed is the relationship that have direction.
For example, e-mail or communication that it basically
has a target and a source that are distinct,
and they're important to make that distinction.
Then similarly, we can have a weighted versus unweighted networks.
The weighted is when the edges have
values and they have that strength associated with them,
and unweighted is that when all the edges are being treated equally.
More concepts to consider is that when we look at the network
is how different nodes are basically connected together.
The concept of just a sequence of nodes and lines that
are all connected together is known as a path,
and if all the nodes,
so as we look at these group of nodes and edges,
if all the nodes and lines are distinct, that a path.
Then a shortest path is basically the shortest possible path between two nodes.
For example, if you look at here,
node 1 and node 5,
there are two different ways that you can actually go from node 1 to node 5.
One is to node 2 and then node 4 and then node 5.
That basically is a path that has three edges involved.
Then the other way is to go basically through
N2 and then directly to N5,
that is a path that two edges are involved.
That would be the shortest possible path from N1 to N5.
Then there is also concepts of reachability,
which is if there is a path between nodes.
If you look at N1 and N3,
these two nodes basically don't have any reachability.
There is no possible path between node 1 and node 3.
Geodesic is the shortest path between two nodes,
and that's the distance of that,
which is related to degree of separations,
which is also the length of shortest path.
Similarly, what we talked about,
the degree separation of node 5 from node 1 would be 2.
The degree separation of node 7 from node 1 would be 3,
because the shortest path has at least three edges between them.
There's also bipartite network,
which is a specific kinds of network,
or known as two-mode network as well,
which is a type of graph or network where
the nodes are divided into two distinct sets,
and edges and the connections only
exist between these nodes from different sets.
An example of bipartite network would be students and courses.
A line connecting a student to a course
shows that the students is enrolled in that course.
Now that we know about basic concepts and network,
then we can actually think about network visualization,
and how to represent these concepts when
we are trying to visually show a network.
Network visualization is basically
graphical representation of a network structure,
and this concept that we just talked about.
To visually explore and understand patterns of relationship,
interaction, and connection within a network.
So concepts that are important when we are doing
this visualization is node size that
often represents the importance of a node,
the edge thickness,
which represent the strength of a connection,
and then the node and edge color that can actually
distinguish different types of nodes or groups of nodes from each other,
which is what you saw in the example earlier in this module as well.
Then the other important concept is how these nodes and edges are arranged,
and that's like a layout of the network and you can have different layouts.
In another lesson of this module,
we are going to go into the details of what these different layouts are,
and how do we decide about which layout is the most useful layout to use.
Some examples of those are force-directed layouts,
circular layouts, and hierarchical layouts.
We will talk more details about these layouts in the next lessons.
Here's an example that you saw earlier in this module as well,
which basically showing some of these concepts that we just talked about,
how the nodes are connected and the connections are
showing the relationship between the nodes that in this case,
the nodes are basically food ingredients and
the connections show the relationship between
these ingredients and the size of the node and
representing the importance of that ingredients in how we make
food and the color actually showing these different categories of food as well.
Why do we want to do network visualization?
There are actually a lot of benefits of network visualization.
It helps us uncover hidden patterns by visualizing networks.
You can detect patterns and structures that are not immediately apparent in raw data,
as we saw in the food example as well.
You can identify key players and network analysis can
highlight which nodes are the most influential or central in a system,
whether it's individuals, organizations,
or biological molecules, or in case of the food example,
you see specific ingredients like onions or garlic to
be that important key player when we think about food as the network.
They optimize systems,
understanding network structure can lead into optimization of communication,
transportation, or other types of networks.
It helps us to track a spread of information or diseases.
Network models help simulate and understand how things spread,
whether it's social media posts going viral or a virus infecting a population.
These are just some examples of the benefits of network visualization,
but in general, network visualization is
a powerful tool to allow us to understand complex structures.
Network structures are very common in
the society as the examples that we talked about.