Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/oJDG1/network-models

English
In this lesson we are going to continue looking at network and network models in
this case and understand how we can use some measurements to model networks. So
when we think about network measures we can think about two groups of network
measures that are at the node level that focus on the prominence and centrality
and influence of nodes. And some common examples of these measures are degree
centrality, closeness centrality and betweenness centrality. And the measures
could also be at the network level which basically measure how fast the
information or anything which is within the network is flowing within the
network and happens in in the network. So that looks at kind of the network
structure. Two common measurements at the network level are network diameter
and network density. There are many other measures put at the network level and
node level that can be used that we're not going to discuss all of those
measures. The ideas in many cases are similar so we're just going to look at
these and examples and learn how these measures works that then could could
apply into other concepts as well. So let's start by looking at degree
centrality which basically represents who knows the most actors. This is
looking at the number of direct connections to other nodes and and if
our network is a directed network and a directed graph then we can have two
different kinds of degree centrality. An in degree which is basically how many
incoming connections a node has and an odd degree which is about how many
outgoing connections a node has. And in degree basically would represent
popularity and status where odd degree represent the expansiveness and reach. So
in this example for if you look at for example node 2, node 2 has three incoming
edges coming to it so the in degree is 3 and there is one outgoing edge to
node 4 so the odd degree is 1. If you look at node 1 then there is only an
odd degree of 1 and in degree of 0. So you can basically just see here in this
table the different kind of degree for each of those nodes. The next
measurement is closeness centrality which is about who has the shortest
distance to other actors. This is basically an index of expected arrival
time. So think about for example if there is a rumor how long would it take that
every node within the network knows the rumor if we start from a specific node.
So for example node 2 you can see kind of has shortest path to like a lot of
the different nodes versus node 5 that maybe has longer in on average kind of
to all the nodes within the network. The way that you're calculating closeness
centrality is basically by looking at the sum of the shortest path and and the
reverse of that. So for example if you look at node 1 node 1 has a shortest
path of 1 to node 2 so that's 1, a shortest path of 2 to node 4, a shortest
path of 2 to node 3, and a shortest path of 2 to node 5. So if we add up 2 plus 2
plus 2 plus 1 we reach at the number 7 and the reverse of that is 1 over 7. So
you can see in this case that node 2 has the highest closeness centrality so
if the rumor is first given to node 2 you would expect that the network much
faster everyone in that network knows the rumor. The last measure is between
the centrality which this is about who controls the knowledge flow. So here
think about if we are removing a particular node how would that kind of
interrupt the process of flow in the network. So for example here if I remove
node 3 still the network can have the flow so it does not interrupt the flow
but if I remove node 2 then it completely interrupts the connection
between the right side of the network and the left side of the
networks. So because of that we basically just consider that node 2 has a high
between the centrality much higher than for example node 3, node 5, or any of the
nodes within this network. So these were the node level measurements and
the network level we have the network diameter as one of the measures which is
represents how fast can information get transmitted in the entire network and it
can be calculated as looking at the largest shortest path between any pair
of nodes in the network. So for example in this network the largest shortest
path happens between the node n1 and n5 or n1 and n4 which is 3 in both
cases so the network diameter in this case is 3. The next network measurement
is the network density which is basically represent how well connected
the entire network is. So basically this is looking at how many edges actually
in the network exist as opposed to like how many possible total edges could
be in the network if every single node in the network were connected. So the way
that you calculate network density is by dividing the number of existing edges
to the least total number of possible edges which can be calculated by
multiplying the number of nodes times number of nodes minus 1 divided by 2.
This is basically calculating all possible edges that could exist within a
network. So for example here you can look at these two different networks.
Visually you can tell that the network on the right side is a much more dense
and it has more connection than the network in the left and so if you
actually calculate the network density given the formula that we just saw on
the right side you get a higher density of 57% versus 19% in the network in the
left side.