Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/BdzLx/advanced-plotting-with-matplotlib

English (auto)
Now we are going to learn about some advanced plotting using matplotlib after we have covered
some of the basic charts.
So we can, for every arguments that we provide in some of the plottings that we saw before,
we can actually make those more customized by setting colors and line widths and line
types.
So the default format is usually what is represented by the parameter B dash, which means that
it's a blue solid line.
So the first part of this parameter specifies the color.
And the second one is basically the format of how the line or how the plot looks like.
So for example, you can change that to make it red circles or make it more blue squares
or green triangles, as you will see in the next examples.
So here, the line of the code shows the X and Y, our X and Y axis data.
And the last parameter is basically says R with a circle.
So that means that the plot is going to be drawn as circles in color red, as you can
see in the graph as well.
In here, the code, then we can actually create three different plots within the same figure
as we saw that before as well, and specify different formats for these different plots
that we are creating.
So the second line here, the first line is basically just creating our data.
So this is evenly sampled at time at 200 milliseconds intervals.
So that's create basically the X axis for us.
And then the Y axis is what we are providing in each of these parameters.
So you can see the first one is basically just a linear line.
And we are drawing that as red with the double dashes.
So that's a double dash red line.
The second one is basically the same X axis, but the Y axis is multiplied by two.
So and we're representing that in blue as a square.
So that's the blue square plot that you can see.
And the third line is using, again, the same X axis, but the Y axis these times is X times
3, X to the power of 3.
So you can see that now you have the next one as kind of exponential plot.
And we are representing this with green and as triangle.
So that's the green triangle that you can see.
So the line that says plot with those parameters all are basically helping you to draw different plots.
So you can similarly have the data being in coming from like different sources and use
these parameters to create more complicated plots in your figure.
Now the data could actually be provided as a structured data object with data keywords
as the arguments that you provide into your plotting function.
So let's look at these examples together.
What you see in the first block highlighted on the top of the slide, you can see that
there are four keys actually provided here, A, B, C, and D.
So what are each of these are doing?
So A is an array of integers from 0 to 49.
So that's basically just a range that is part of the NumPy library.
And it goes from, if you don't provide the first variable, it just basically goes from
0 to 50 in this case.
Then the second line here, which is providing what is the C, is a random integers between
0 and 49.
And then D, which is the third line in the code, is a random numbers that instead of
providing the range, what you're providing here is the distribution to be drawn from.
So this is a standard normal distribution.
So again, you're going to have 50 numbers that are drawn from a random, that are drawn
randomly from a normal distribution.
And the key B is generated based on key A by adding a random noise to the values of
A. That is what you can see in the line that is defining the key B for data, which is data
A plus 10 times this random noise that we are adding.
And then the next line is transforming the values of D to positive numbers and to be
scaled within the range of 100.
And so now the next line, which is the scatterplot, which is plotting our scatterplot using the
matplotlib plot that we had imported, the first two parameters, which are A and B keys,
those are our X and Y coordinated that are taken from the data dictionary.
And the next parameters can actually provide the color and the size of each point.
So what you're creating here is that we are saying that use these randomly generated numbers
as a way of coloring actually the different dots.
And the last one is basically the size of these.
So you can expect that you have like these set of dots that are different colors randomly
chosen and there are different sizes based on, again, these normal distribution that
we have.
In this case, this is the D, which is basically a range from 0 to 49.
So here is if you run this code, this is the kinds of examples.
So if you run it every time, you're going to get a slightly different plots because
these are randomly generated.
And so these are examples, some examples of what you would expect to see.
So you can see that you have different sizes of the dots and different colors of the dots
that are created.
So what's interesting here is that how you use these different parameters of a structured
data into your plotting to be able to plot different graphs in Matplotlib.
So when we do data visualization, a lot of times it's useful to be able to actually work
with images as well.
This is particularly important when we think about data storytelling and using images as
part of the data story and incorporating images into the data story.
And this is something which is possible in Python and using Python libraries as well.
So two libraries that would be useful to know here, one is PL, which is Python Imaging Library.
That's a library that is used for opening, manipulating, and saving many different image
files and formats in Python.
And the next one is PL, which is a more modern, actively maintained fork of the PIL that provides
the same functionality with additional improvements and compatibility with a newer version of
Python that you can use.
So the way that these libraries work, that they are treating an image as this array that
represents the colors of the different dots of the image.
So just consider image as basically arrays of dots, and you have basically an option
of drawing every dot within the picture and shape kind of the image based on this access
to different dots across the image.
And so you can have two different kinds of images.
You can have a grayscale image, which is a 2D array with dimensions of height and width.
And then you can have a 3D, which provides then the height and width with also the color channels.
So let's look at some examples of how to use these plotting images.
The first line of the code here is importing the image object from the PL library.
And then the second part is using the PL library to open an image file named sky.jpg.
And then convert this open image using the NumPy Python library, holding pixel data of the image.
So now by having this pixel data, we have access basically to every pixel of the image
that we can actually manipulate.
And so the next line is just printing this image array.
And the last line is displaying the image.
So the printing is printing those pixel data and then the displaying of the image.
This is basically, if you run this code, this is what you will see.
And then what we can do is that we can actually manipulate the image and applying pseudocolors schemas,
which would help us basically change kind of the different visual elements of this image.
So in this case, we can work on, for example, changing the contrast in visualizing the data.
Pseudocolors are only relevant to the single channel grayscale.
And so we are converting an RGB image to a 2D grayscale like image by extracting only one channel of the image.
So the way that you do this is you can actually use the NumPy Python library to slice an image.
So now that we have this image basically as an array, we have actually this option of slicing the image
and getting the specific channels that would allow us then to start changing kind of the contrast
and different elements of the image as well.
So that this line image dot dot zero, what it does is that it basically extracts all the rows and all the columns
with the first two parameters.
The double column means select all rows and columns.
And then the zero specifies which channels of the colors from these 3D objects we are going to extract.
And zero just means the red channel.
So if you do this, then this is the kind of output that you're going to get.
If you add basically that line of code into your previous code, this is what you're going to be getting when you are showing this image.
And then you can start changing the color maps by changing the different colors on the image or different kinds of manipulations.
So this is just the color maps, but you can do different sorts of manipulation as we have provided resources for you to review for this as well.
So the color map maps these numerical data to the colors, and then you can set that color into your image.
There are specific color maps, also common color maps that are provided.
Gray would be a grayscale.
You can have a color map which is ranging from the dark purple to yellow.
You can have hot colors that range from black to red to yellow to white.
So this kind of creates this more of the heat map when this is what you want to create.
Or it ranges from blue to green to red, which is widely used, but not perceptually uniform.
So here again, this is the code.
So you have the plots that you're showing, and you can change actually the first line is just showing the image,
and the second line allows you to change this color map to a grayscale.
So starting from the original image, then we extracted basically the one dimension so that we can have the manipulation on that.
And now we can change the color map here to being a grayscale image.