Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/k62Oz/creating-simple-plots

English (auto)
Okay, let's start looking at how we can create some simple plots using Python library of
Matplotlib.
First thing, we're going to look at how we create a simple line plot in a line chart.
As you can see, this is the code that would actually generate this graph here, and we
are going to look at different parts of this code and understand what each part of the
code does.
So the first part, this is basically the function in a NumPy library that we talked about.
You're going to be importing it to be able to use to represent some of the data.
And this line basically just generates a function.
It's a function that generates an array of evenly spaced numbers over a specified interval
and creates a range of values.
So in this case, basically it's creating a set of numbers between zero and five.
So these two lines then are creating our X and Y arrays.
So here, this one is our X values, and the Y values basically are just X values times
two for each of the values in our X array.
And then this part is basically where here, this line is creating the plot for you by
using the command plot, and you are providing X and Y.
And then the next part, the next few lines, it's adding the titles and labels for X and
Y axis.
And so you can see the plot can have these different attributes of title, X label, and
Y label that you can provide the values for that.
You can also use the same functions to create more than one plot.
So you can have like a subplot.
So what we're doing here is that using the subplot commands to create multiple plots
within the same figure.
And in this case, what you see, the first parameter is identifying the rows.
The second is providing the columns, and the last parameter is basically the index.
So what we are saying here is that we are going to have one row and then two different
columns.
And the first one is the first plot in that figure, and the second one is the second one.
And you can see by providing these parameters in the plot itself, as we are saying that
X and Y, and the last parameter is providing the color, saying like that the first plot
is going to be red, and the second plot is going to be blue, as you can see in the figure
as well.
So you can also, these are simply just using the plot functions.
But as we discussed before, a lot of MapPlotLib relies on using the figure object.
So you can use this figure object to then create a set of different plots and adding
basically different plots into the same figure.
So as the code that you can see here, we can use these figure objects in the library to
plot the charts and then associate all the related information as shown in this example.
We first create the figure object, as you can see in the first line, and provide a size
for it.
In this case, it's basically 4 by 5 inch.
We then add the axis objects to the figure at the specific location and size.
The arguments of 0.1, 0.1, 0.9, 0.9 specifies the position and size of the axis in terms
of the figure's coordinate, starting from the left, bottom, width, and height.
So in this case, the left equal to 0.1 is representing that it will start 10% from the
left side of the figure.
The bottom, again, similar to 0.1 means that the bottom also starts 10% from the bottom
of the figure, and the axis will be 90% as wide as the figure and as tall as the figure
by the 0.92 parameters that are specified as the last set of parameters.
Next we can add our labels for the axis as well as the title of the chart by setting
the x label, the y label, and the title with those commands of set x label, set y label,
and set title.
And then we can start plotting.
So the first line of the plotting is plotting x and y and labeling it actually with x and
x times 2, which is basically what this plot is representing.
And then you can have another plot, which is basically just the reverse of this one.
And here, again, we are labeling it, as you can see in the legend in the graph, with the
right label.
And we just provide also the last line of the code is providing just the location of
the plot.
Next, we're going to learn how to create bar charts.
So when we want to create bar charts, we need categories and values.
So you can have your data represented in categories and values.
And then it creates just a bar chart using the command bar, which then has those parameters
of categories and values.
And then we can add similar to the previous cases, add labels and titles into the visualization
as well.
So looking in more details about how the bar command works, the parameters that I accept
is x, which is the position of the x-axis where the bars will be placed.
The height of the bars, the values that correspond to the data you're visualizing, so this is
your values, actually.
The width of the bars, you can specify how wide the bars are going to be.
The bottom parameter, which is the y-coordinates of the bottom of the bars, and this is an
optional parameter.
And you can have an alignment of the bars to be on the center or an edge of these different
categories.
So here in this example, we are basically by saying y is equal to center, we are basically
just saying to put that bars in the center of the categories.
Again, that's also an optional, and the default is center.
So here is an example of the code that will create basically this bar chart for you.
If you have more than one values for the same set of categories, so a lot of times when
we are creating bar charts, we are creating actually group bar charts, you can easily
do that in Python by having these different, so as you can see in this code, in the section
around the creating the group bar chart, you can create these different bar charts by providing
the different values.
And what you can do here is then you can provide a color.
So in this case, we are providing the blue and the orange color.
We're providing the label for each of those, so we're saying the blue is the data set one
and the orange is the data set two.
And then what you're doing is that by specifying the positions of the bars at the first parameters,
you can then position these to be all at the distance that you want.
So remember like that, the first parameter is what actually the position, so you can
use then whatever position you want to this be center and kind of specify a width for the bar.
And then from that position, basically have half of the width on one side and the other half on
the other side, which is what is happening is two lines, which says x minus width divided by two
and x plus width divided by two.