Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/SjtHk/art-vs-science-of-data-visualization

English (auto)
Art and science of data visualization represent two interconnected, yet distinct, aspects
of redesigning effective visual representation of data.
While both are crucial for creating meaningful and impactful visualization, they focus on
different elements of the process, as we will see in this module.
In terms of science of data visualization, the goal is to ensure that the data is represented
accurately, by looking at aspects such as the data integrity, that is ensuring that
the data that is being visualized is well analyzed, is statistically sound, is representing
correct information.
So examples of processes that will focus on these aspects of data visualization is looking
at data normalizations or identifying outliers.
When we think about the scientific aspects of data visualization, not only we should
think about how the data is created and the data aspects of what we are visualizing, it's
also thinking about the human processing of information and how people understand data.
So for example, understanding that people are better at interpreting differences in
length than angles help us think about how we want to visualize information.
In terms of art of data visualization, the goal is really to ensure that the data representation
resonates with the viewer and communicates the message effectively.
So we want to create visualizations that are engaging, they're emotionally compelling,
and they're intuitive to explore.
Visualizations that are aesthetically pleasing are more likely to be engaging and to engage
the audience.
You can achieve these goals by looking at a well-designed color palette, thinking about
a balanced layout, and thoughtful use of typography.
And as throughout this course, you will see different examples of visualization and we
talk about these aspects.
Emotional impact of visualization is also important, especially when we think about
artful visualization, the goal is really to evoke these sorts of emotional responses.
Some of the examples that we saw in the last module are really designed with this goal
in mind.
For example, the visualization about the causes of death created by Florence Nightingale by
showing that how much that is actually happening outside of the battle evokes these emotions
in people of something in the hospital should be improved.
Similarly, the visualization that we saw in terms of the imbalance of investment versus
revenue generated by businesses that are owned by women, it actually evokes this emotion
maybe about inequity and injustices that exist in terms of supporting women entrepreneurs.
When we think again about these artistic aspects of data visualization, we want to think about
that data visualization is really about the storytelling.
The storytelling is about connecting the two or more data visualizations to tell a
story with data.
Infographics like the one that is presented here is really a quick way of creating a story
and telling a visual story about data and to help people understand and explore data
better.
Thinking more about these artistic aspects of data visualization, there are a new trend
of really thinking about data visualization in an innovative and creative ways.
Laura Frick is one that has created really interesting data visualization, and you can
explore in additional resources that we have provided more about her work.
And here you can see one of these visualizations.
This is actually an art piece that is trying to show people's activities over a week.
You can see these seven days here, each of them represented in a column, and each column
has 24 hours represented with these different segments here.
And the different segments and different colors are representing different activities in someone's
daily life.
So it could be things like tracking sleep, work, eating, cooking, walking the dog, exercising,
and all of these are actually made from leather and wood and aluminum, so it's actually an
art, a tangible art piece that people can interact with.
So when we think about these arts and science of visualization, an effective visualization
tries to create a balance between art and science.
We do not want to create visualizations that looks beautiful and artistic, but is not communicating
information correctly.
And the other way around, we do not want to think about things that are maybe very rigorous
in terms of the data that they're visualizing, but it's very hard to understand, it's very
hard for people to interpret and interact with.
Here is one example of something that you could consider maybe not a very effective
visualization.
While this is maybe colorful and beautiful and artistic, it's actually not showing information
in ways that is useful to people.
So the goal of this visualization is basically showing the average age at which young people
leave their parental household in Europe.
But these different circles have different numbers in them, and while there are different
colors, neither the colors nor the actual circles and size of the circles are actually
showing useful information that makes it easy to see the patterns that the maybe creator
of this data visualization were hoping to communicate.
Here is the same example in maybe a better ways of visualizing.
So rather than showing the circles, here is basically shows a map of Europe and with
kind of different shades of color showing kind of the different ranges of average age
to leave the house.
So here you can see that it's much easier to see that the lighter colors are countries
that people leave at younger ages.
So very quickly, you can kind of even see like patterns that maybe in East Europe versus
Western Europe, you see a different sort of pattern.
And then, for example, United Kingdom seems to be somewhere in between.
So here, the same sort of information is communicated, but it's much easier to make sense of this
data.
So this is where we can see that there is a balance between the art and science of data
visualization.