Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/Mef7S/why-is-data-visualization-important

English (auto)
Why is data visualization important?
The historical and modern example of data visualization that we reviewed in the previous
lesson highlights some key reasons of the importance of data visualization.
In this lesson, we are going to look into more details of some of these key reasons
that data visualization is important.
First of all, data visualization improves data comprehension and reduces cognitive load.
Data visualization can improve how we can look at the data and simplify complex data.
Presenting information visually makes it easier to interpret complex data sets.
Charts, graphs, and maps can reveal patterns, trends in data sets, and help us identify
outliers.
In general, for most humans, our brain can process visual information better.
This little visual representation here from Rebel and Soul actually shows some interesting
statistics about the difference between how we process text versus visual information.
Studies show that we process images 60,000 times faster than text.
When viewing information, we are more likely to skip text and information in textual format
and pay more attention to visual information.
Our brain, in fact, retains 80% of what we see, but only 20% of the text that we read.
Visualization can also reveal patterns and insights and facilitate discovery.
Visualization helps us uncover correlation, patterns, and relationships in the data, making
it easier to see changes in data over different factors, such as time, as we saw in the line
charts in the lesson before, or geographical location, as we can see in this heat map here.
The heat map in this figure shows the air pollution index of different areas in the
city of Pittsburgh, with the darker color representing higher level of population.
So even with a little bit of time spent on this figure, we get this quick idea of where
air pollution is higher.
So for example, here you can see that along the lines of a main street, we see higher
level of air pollution.
Similarly, it can help facilitate real-time monitoring and enable better decision-making,
as we also saw in the example with Florence Nightingale, using actually data visualization
to inform decision-making.
The data-driven decision-making has been very common, and different organizations, government,
and agencies and individuals increasingly rely on these data-driven strategies.
And visualization can actually help with making more informed decisions and being able to
view insights that helps with making actionable decisions.
It helps to establish strategies, visualizing key metrics, allow decision-making to monitor
performance-optimized processes, and make data-backed decisions.
Like here, for example, in this map, again, this air quality index is shown in different
areas, and by highlighting areas that maybe are more in danger, it helps the decision-making
process to focus on the areas that need more attention.
Data visualization can also help collaboration, which is highly related to this decision-making
as well.
Visual representation of data encourages the group exploration of a phenomenon, when everyone
the team can see the data clearly and interpret it in the same way, which are the key principles
of how we visualize data.
It facilitates discussion and collective decision-making.
There are, in fact, several different tools that are really developed and designed with
this idea of social exploration of data, and to facilitate collective data analysis by
allowing users to visualize data and share visualization and insights.
So what you can see in this slide is an example of one of these tools called Social Explorer,
that you can actually visual different...
You can look at publicly available data and visualize this data.
So what you can see here is actually visualizing census data.
In this case, it's basically the density population of the United States at different
granularity levels.
So you can hear at the state level, at the county level, or at the city level, or any
level, which is important for what is the topic of the discussion.
It can also encourage data literacy that, again, is very important as the use of data
is increasing.
So for example, what you can actually see here in this graph is basically helping people
to use data and make sense of the data in ways that would actually be informing.
So what you can see here is visually showing how there is disparity between how much money
is invested in companies owned by women versus actually how much revenue are generated by
the companies that are by women.
So you can see that there's a lot less investment, even though that the revenue can actually
be very comparable.
So good data visualization helps to tell a story, which helps with this data literacy,
and it helps to explain what is happening in the data and why is it happening.
Visual data stories make data more accessible, encouraging a broader audience to engage and
understand the data.
Teaching and learning in educational setting with visualization can be much more effective
for teaching complex subjects from mathematics to economics, making abstract concepts more
tangible and easier to understand.
These promote data literacy across organizations and society, helping more people become comfortable
using data to inform their actions.