Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/80Wzo/exploring-the-relationship-between-the-regression-coefficients-and-the-inputs

English
Hello, everyone. In this video,
we will conclude with
the last major assumption of the linear model.
As you can see, I already have Jupyter up and running.
In this week's directory for the project,
please go ahead and launch a new Jupyter Notebook.
I want you to rename this
to week_09_lm_linearity, L-I-N-E-A-R-I-T-Y.
Now, put in our header information CMPINF 2100 Week 09.
But the subtitle, what does linear actually mean?
We use the phrase
linear model or linear regression all the time.
But what does that really mean?
Let's import modules.
We need the big four.
For this example, we need numpy as np.
We need pandas as pd.
We need matplotlib.pyplot as plt,
and we need seaborn as sns.
Now, what do you think linear means?
Because when most people hear linear regression,
they think best fit lines.
They think a straight line
between the output and the input.
But you now know
the model is actually predicting the average output.
So does linear mean
the average output is linearly related to
the input or the math notation
for the conventional linear model?
I'll type this in lay tech, you don't have to,
but the average output or trend Mu is equal to
intercept plus slope times our input.
But what if we instead preprocessed
or transformed the input through
a non linear transformation function?
For example, let's define a new column, s,
which is equal to the sine of x
or the sine function applied to the input x.
The math notation looks like,
again, you don't have to write this,
but the mean Mu is equal to intercept plus
slope times s. Now,
this looks just like the previous expression.
We have an intercept.
We have a slope. We have some feature.
This feature depends on the input.
The feature depends on the input,
or the feature is a function of the input.
So if we would write out the model in terms of the input,
we would have Mu is equal to intercept plus
slope times the sine of x.
Now, most people, when you hear,
I'm going to create a model based on
the sine of x or the trend depends on the sine of x.
Most people will say, "This is a non linear model."
But this is not. This is linear.
The easiest way to know it's linear is when we
rewrite it in this form where we
have defined some feature as just a new variable
rather than writing it in terms of the original input.
Formally, the definition of linear has
nothing to do with the relationship between the trend,
the average output and the input.
Linear means the trend is a linearly
related to the unknown regression coefficients.
In the conventional linear model,
the intercept is linearly related to Mu.
The slope Beta_1 is linearly related to Mu.
If I write the new function in terms of the feature s,
Beta_0, the intercept is linearly related to Mu.
Beta_1 is linearly related to Mu.
If I write it in terms of the input directly,
which involves sine of x,
the intercept is linearly related to Mu,
the slope is linearly related to Mu.
Now, what does linear mean in this context?
The change in Mu divided
by a change in any of those parameters,
such as the intercept or the slope,
does not depend on the value of the parameter.
In calculus terms, we would say
the derivative of Mu with respect to
the intercept does not
depend on the value of the coefficient itself.
Or another way to put it,
we aren't squaring the coefficients.
We aren't applying trig functions to the coefficients.
We aren't dividing by the coefficients.
We don't have a ratio of coefficients here.
We aren't multiplying two coefficients together.
We don't have an exponential of a coefficient.
We simply have coefficient
multiplying something that depends on the input.
The definition of linearity in a linear model,
again, has nothing to
do about the relationship to the input.
It's all about how does the average output relate to
the unknown regression coefficients
that we must ultimately estimate.
Let's use simulated data to
demonstrate all of the assumptions of the linear model,
just as we did in the previous example.
The difference now, though,
is we will create this model here.
We will actually create a relationship between
the trend and the sined function applied to x.
To make the data,
we need to specify
the coefficients and the Sigma of the linear model.
I am picking these values,
but they could be different.
So you feel free to
change the coefficients that I'm using here.
I'm going to have an intercept that I'm going
to call b0_sin = 0.25.
I'm going to have a slope that I'll call b1_sin = -2.25,
and I'll have the Sigma, the standard deviation.
I want it to be really tiny this time, 0.1.