Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/ckXqW/introduction-to-linear-regression-modeling

English
Hello everyone.
In this video, we are now going to start talking about predictive modeling.
We are transitioning away from exploring data and finding patterns.
We are making a distinction between variables.
Some will be inputs and others will be outputs.
We will introduce the assumptions of the linear model through
programming examples rather than detailed mathematical equations and
going through a whole lot of readings through textbooks on canvas.
There are slides that walk through in pictures and
also in equations if you'd like to see them.
Everything that you're about to see in this programming example.
As you can see, I have Jupyter up for this week of the course.
Please launch a new Jupyter notebook.
If you need to pause the recording and start Jupyter, please do so and
then come back and launch the new notebook.
Let's change the name of this notebook to week
zero nine lm assumptions because this is all
about the major assumptions of the linear model.
So I'll put in our header information, CMPINF 2100 Week 09,
Introduction to Regression: Assumptions of the linear model.
We need to import modules to support this example,
but all we need for this notebook are the big four,
import numpy as np, import pandas as pd,
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt, and import seaborn as sns.
We will not need scikit-learn or
any functions outside of these four in this example.
Okay, regression, we will begin with the linear model.
You commonly hear this described as linear regression.
The goal of regression is to predict
a continuous output given inputs.
For now, we will start simple with a single continuous input.
So whether you're working with regression or
classification has to do with the data type of your output.
A continuous output is a regression problem.
We will see how to handle non continuous or categorical inputs later.
We are starting simple with a continuous input with just one continuous input.
You know how to explore many variables, but we're keeping this simple,
one continuous output, one continuous input.
You will often hear people talk about
the regression model is between the output and the input.
And although that's common,
I typically describe the relationship differently.
I like to be specific about where the model is actually applied,
and what you will be learning is that
the model does not predict the output.
Instead, the model predicts the average or mean output.
So really, the statement that's more correct
is that the average output depends on the input.
If you go through the slides on Canvas, the math notation
that I typically use, and now I'm going to type this in.
You don't have to, is that the average output is labeled as the greek letter mu.
It's equal to an intercept plus a slope times an input.
I typically denote inputs as x's.
The regression coefficients, the intercept and the slope,
I denote with betas following a lot of common statistics textbooks.
And mu, the Greek letter mu is the average output, which I will also call the trend.
So the trend is related to or depends on the input.