Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/oNnKn/understanding-slopes-intercepts-and-randomness

English
Slopes can also be negative.
Let's first return back to the slope of one, just to remind ourselves that
a slope of one means the output changes one unit as the input changes one unit.
But if the slope is -1, Now,
your output, or our trend, decreases by one unit for
a one unit increase of the input.
So a negative slope means the trend, the average output,
decreases as your input increases.
Smaller negative values means the relationship is still negative.
The average output is decreasing as your
input increases, but at a slower rate.
So here it takes three units change of the input
to cause a one unit change in the average response.
Likewise, if we would have a slope of -3,
now it's a steeper line.
A one unit change of the input causes the average
output to change by -3 units, because 1 x (-3) = -3.
Now, what would happen if you have a slope of zero?
A slope of zero means the average is constant.
The average output, the trend, never changes.
As you'll learn over the next few weeks,
a slope of zero is a very important thing in modeling.
Because the idea of statistical
significance is really just asking,
how confident are you that the slope is
either positive or the slope is negative?
So we will be returning back to this more next week, but
I wanted to introduce the concept now from the idea if a slope is zero,
there is no change in the average output.
But what happens if your intercept is not zero?
What if your intercept is positive one?
The intercept changes the average.
We have shifted our line from zero to one because
remember I said here that the slope is zero.
But what happens if we have a non zero intercept and a non zero slope?
Look at x equal to zero.
If I scroll up, the trend is no longer zero.
Now the trend has a value of one.
The intercept tells you the average
output when the input is equal to zero.
So if I had an intercept of -1,
Now, when the input is zero, the average output is not zero.
The average output is -1.
Likewise, you can have a negative intercept and a negative slope.
It's the same interpretation when the input is zero,
that is the value of your intercept.
Of course, you can also have decimals.
You've already seen if I used one-third.
But here, let's now change the intercept to 0.25 and the slope to -1.5.
When the input is zero, the trend, the average is not zero.
It's slightly above it.
The slope is decreasing.
The trend decreases as the input increases.
Because my slope is less than zero, because it's negative.
What did we learn here?
We learned the intercept tells you the average output when the input is zero.
We have also learned that the sign of the slope tells you if the average
output increases or decreases as your input increases.
If you don't like that,
I've used some input centered at zero between negative three and three.
Just remember, you can always standardize your continuous variables.
So you could think of what I'm plotting here as the Z score.
But this isn't the whole picture for regression for linear models.
There's one other very important aspect of linear models,
that is an element of randomness.
The complete story of a linear model, Involves randomness.
Up to this point, I have referred to
the model as between the average output,
or trend, and the input.
The observed output is randomly
distributed around the average output.
The observed output is normally
distributed around the average output.
So in general, what we observe is random.
Specifically, in the linear model, we are assuming the observed
output is normally distributed around the average.
The randomness represents that there
is a likelihood between the observed output and the trend.