Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/X9m0h/visualizing-randomness-around-the-trend-in-linear-regression

English
After calculating the trend
or setting the average, the location,
we need to set the scale,
the standard deviation around the average.
Then we need to specify
how many random numbers to generate.
I want to have as many random numbers
as rows in my data frame.
Again, look closely here.
The trend is a function of the input
but the standard deviation
around the average is a constant number,
it does not change.
We run it, we now have
the observed output y for each observed input x,
or the random output versus the input via a scatter plot.
This is our relationship.
Data equals df, x equals x,
y equals y,
kind equals scatter, just to be specific.
Do you see how the dots are not following a line?
In fact, if we would connect the dots
by creating a line charge kind equals line,
if we would connect the dots,
would you be tempted to think
the data did not come from a straight line?
Now, I'm going to create a composite figure.
To show the observed random outputs
around the line, around the trend.
Just to speed it up, I will bring
this in from my practice.
It's not critical right now that you create this figure,
but I mainly want to use it to demonstrate the fact
the data are coming from
this straight line, this red line.
But there's randomness.
There's a random number generator that gives us
observations typically around the line,
typically near it, but we allow
four values far from the line.
Here, we only have nine observations,
and so we do not have to have
an equal number of data points above and below the line.
If you're interested, this figure was
created by two axis level functions,
line plot, and scatter plot together.
It's a composite graphic
of overlaying two types of plots.
But what I'm really interested in at
the moment is what happens if we
randomly generate more observations
or to use the terminology
from the beginning of the semester,
what if we replicate calling
the random number generator more times?
Let's create a copy of our dataset, DF try.
Let's add two new columns where we
call the random number generator, two more times.
I'll name this first column Y one.
It requires calling rg normal.
Again, where the location is equal to
the trend and to force that to be a num pi array.
The scale is still Sigma noise.
This is a constant number,
and how many random observations should we
generate the same number of rows in the data frame?
Do it one more time.
Y two, and just to show you it's
the same operation I will now
copy and paste the code above.
I'm using the same call to a random number generator.
The average, the standard deviation,
how many observations to make but assigning it
to a second column that gets added.
Displaying them, displaying this data frame you can see
the numbers in a single row are different.
After all, we called the random number generator,
and we did not reset the seed.
Visualize the three sets
of randomly generated outputs together,
and again, you don't have to do this right now,
I'm just going to bring in this code.
The main point at the moment is for you to see
the fact that at a given input value,
we have three different random outputs.
Look at x equals zero.
We have three different random outputs,
even though the average is this red line.
One more figure to put in here.
Again, I'm just bringing this in to save time.
Copy or connecting the dots.
You can see the wiggles that are forming.
None of those three sets
of random numbers produce
a nice, perfectly straight line.
What we're seeing here,
is we are randomly generating outputs around this line.
What if we could replicate many times?
How will the random observations be
distributed around the true trend?
Because that red line is the true average output.