Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/N2yRO/analytics-and-analysis-in-tableau

English (auto)
In this lesson, we are going to be looking at
the analytics and analysis options that Tableau provides.
In general, those are limited,
but there's still options that allow to
add additional analysis to your visualization.
One of those are applying filters.
What you can do is that you can actually include and
exclude different parts of
the data by applying different filters.
You can drag the variable that you want to use for
the filtering of the data to filter particular parts of the data,
which basically opens the edit filter window.
I'm going to show that as a demo
in a little bit also so that you can see how that works.
You can also do other analytics.
We saw the reference line in the analytics tabs,
but if you go to the analytics tab,
which appears on the top left side of your interface,
then you see the different kinds of analytics that are available.
One of the analytics which is useful to make sense of the data are
the trend lines that basically they show
the overall direction and patterns of the data points,
especially when you create things like a line charts or a scatterplot or
bar charts that could actually provide additional information about
what is the distribution of the data and what is the trend visible in the data.
These trend lines can be computed based on different types of
the regression models including linear,
logarithmic, or exponential, and polynomial regressions.
These regression models are used to help determine what is
the best fit to the data that
explains the relationship between the dependent and independent variables.
The linear regression would be when the data shows
a consistent upward or downward trends with no significant curves.
So that's what would model and if you actually
create these trend lines and use that as the model,
then that shows what is the pattern in the data.
The logarithmic regression is when the data changes rapidly at first and then stabilizes.
The exponential regression is when the data grows or decays at an increasing rate.
Polynomial regression is when the data shows multiple turning points,
ups and downs in the trend,
and the power regression is appropriate for phenomena where one variable grows
faster or slower than other variables.
When you actually select these different regression models,
then you can actually use the information that
Tableau Analytics provides to decide which one is
actually the best fit into your data and which one you want to include to show the trend.
If you click actually on your data and it gives you
this option of describing the trend line
and when you look at that,
it actually shows you the p-value,
which shows how well this particular trend line is fitting in your dataset,
and it helps you determine the statistical significance of the trend line.
The lower p-value suggests that the trend line is statistically significant,
meaning that that's actually a good fit.
You can also look at other factors that I'm going to show you in
the demo to decide also on these best fits.