Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/O8Cfq/creating-visualizations-in-tableau

English
So before we get started on looking at the visualization,
some additional concept to understand in Tableau.
First is the data fields that this is basically
the table of the data and the rows and the columns in the data.
A field is a column in the data and that could actually
be either qualitative fields that Tableau refer to them as dimensions.
These are basically columns in your data that help
you describe or categorize the data,
things like what, when, or who,
and it allows you to slice
the quantitative data in these different categories.
Then the quantitative fields that Tableau refer to them as measures,
these are numerical data and they provide
measurements for those different categories,
and they can be used in calculation.
So as we saw in the last lesson,
we are going to be using the TIPS dataset.
So if you look at that dataset, for example,
the TIP, which is a numerical value
of the TIP that was actually paid for a particular meal,
that would be a measure in numerical data versus another field in the data,
smoker, which basically says if the person who TIP was a smoker or not,
that would be a dimension for categorization.
The other things that you can do in addition to the data that you have,
you can actually create these calculated fields,
and that would add additional information that you can use to visualize.
We are going to actually now be looking at how we can do these things.
So I'm going to actually show you how to do these in Tableau.
So we are going to switch from the slides into looking actually at Tableau.
Here is basically that's what you should be seeing.
If you are following along and you have done what we covered in the last lesson,
which is creating your account,
then logging in and starting basically with the TIPS dataset,
and you should be able to basically see these information here.
The first thing is that we can,
let's say that for example,
we want to look at how to visualize average amount of TIP over different days.
Here the days then is basically
our qualitative dimension that we want to look at then the numerical TIP data over those days.
So what we are going to do is that we can drag the day into the column,
and then you can actually click on this little arrow that appears there,
making sure that that is considered as a dimension,
and we basically just leave it there.
Then we can now drag TIP here.
You can see that by default,
it basically does some sort of aggregation,
so showing the total amount of TIPS for that day.
Let's say that we want to look at the average TIP.
So what you can do is that you can click again on this,
and you can go to the measure.
So remember this is not a numerical field,
which is a measure, and choose the average here.
Now we can see the average amount of TIPs over different days.
So one of the things is that you can notice here that the days maybe are
not sorted in the order of the day of the week.
So you can actually sort your data.
So we can click here again on that little arrow and click on sort.
Either you can sort it ascending or descending,
or you can actually be sorted manually in this case,
because of the order that we want to show the days.
So let's say that we want to make sure that that follows the day of the week.
So it starts with Thursday,
and Friday, Saturday, Sunday.
So now your data is sorted.
The other thing that you can do is,
as I mentioned, you can have these calculated fields,
so that you can add other information and data into your visualization.
So let's say that, for example,
here we want to show the error bars over this average amount of TIPs over the day.
So we want to make sure that we can show an error bar,
which is like one standard deviation.
So what you can do is that you can actually do calculated fields.
So we want to, here in this case,
calculate the standard deviation of TIPs.
So what you do is that you click on this little arrow here,
and then we can say create calculated fields.
Here it allows you to basically provide any sort of a calculation that you want to do.
So in this case, we want our error bar to be the average amount of TIP.
So it actually shows that by default.
If you start typing,
it also shows the functions that are available for the calculation.
So this is going to be the average TIP plus the standard deviation.
So again, you can see all the different function,
and we want the standard deviation.
Basically, then just say,
okay, and it's going to now be adding this field here,
which is your error bars.
So now if I want to add the error bars here to my visualization,
I can go to the analytics tab,
and we're going to be looking more into the analytics in the next lesson as well.
But here, we want to add a reference line,
which is basically our error bar.
So you drag this and drop it here,
and in this case,
we want the reference for each of the cells.
So just drag it into the cell,
and then you see basically now these options that you can add.
What we wanted to do is that we wanted to have this error bar.
So we're just going to drag the error bar so that we have that also available.
Then here, we want the option of line to be added,
and we want this error bar that we calculated,
the average of error for each of the cells,
and now you can see actually that you have
that error bar added to your visualization.
As I mentioned before,
now we can actually publish this visualization to make sure that it's actually saved,
so that would be available to come and to work with it again.
These are what I showed on Tableau,
the different slides that we also have here,
how to calculate a field,
and so in this case,
a standard deviation,
so you can actually follow along,
and then creating the example bar plot by setting the day as our column,
and the tips as our row,
basically just the things that I showed you in the demo as well.
Another important feature that Tableau has is that you can see on
the right corner a button that says Show Me.
When you click on this,
it basically shows you different options that you have for charts.
Specifically, it basically highlights,
it has all these different chart types,
and it then highlights whatever chart types that applies.
The Show Me button has the option to see
all the different chart types that are available for visualization,
and particularly it highlights the visualizations and
the chart types that apply to the data that you have active in your worksheet,
and it has the basic chart types on pie chart,
bar chart, and line chart,
but also more advanced chart types like a tree map or
bubble charts that would allow you different kinds of visualization.