Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/mdh55/dashboards

English (auto)
In this lesson, we are going to be looking at dashboards in
Tableau and learn about what dashboards are,
and how do we create dashboards,
and what are the things that we can do in dashboards.
What is a dashboard?
It's basically a feature in Tableau that allow you to
combine different visualization and create
a cohesive interactive presentation of
the data visualization that tells a story about the data,
and allows the user to explore that story
through the interaction with the data.
How do we create dashboards?
I'm going to show you actually through
the demo of how you can do that in Tableau.
The first step is that you need to open
the dashboard workspace and then
start adding visualization to the dashboard.
How do we do that?
Here is how we do that.
Here we have the visualizations.
This is one of the visualization that we created,
which is basically showing the average tip on different days.
Then the other visualization that we created was
the visualization that shows the size
of the different tip by the total bill.
You can see those visualization here in the bottom.
Now to create a dashboard,
you click here on dashboard and say new dashboard.
That creates now your space for dashboard.
What you can do is that you can actually add
this visualization to your dashboard.
By default, Tableau aligns these and put them side-by-side.
You can also change that into a floating option and
start moving the visualization around and
order them in any way that you want.
You can change the size of this basically screen that you have here.
You see the size here and change the size depending on
what device the user might be using the visualization.
That's how we create dashboard.
Now the next step,
which is the important and interesting part of creating dashboard,
is that you can actually add interactivity to your dashboard.
These interactivity can be in two main forms.
One is that you can add filters.
This is similar to when we added filters,
we want to into our visualizations,
but here you allow the user to actually interact with these filters.
Then the next ones are adding action.
To add filters, I'm going to now go back to
the demo to show you how you can do that.
Let's see that we want here in
this visualization to have an option to add
that filtering of what people
see in the visualization based on gender.
What you can do is that you can click on the visualization,
and then you basically see this little arrow,
click on that arrow,
and what you see is then this option of filter,
and you can decide what variable you want to add here to filter.
Let's say that we want to add the sex as the variable,
so now this appears here.
When you publish this dashboard,
people can actually select these different values
and see the change in the visualization.
I can now unselect male,
which means that now what is shown here is the tip by female,
or I can do the reverse,
now look at male,
and so basically you see the difference,
and the trend line here also
helps to see that difference even more visibly.
That's what the interactivity through the filters support.
The next thing that you can do is that you can also add actions.
Actions allow users to interact with
the dashboard by hovering, clicking,
or selecting elements that may be from
one visualization and see that in other visualizations.
To create actions, I'm going to go back again
to the demo to show you how to do that.
The way that we can do that is that we can actually click here on
the dashboard and you see the options of action.
We click on action and we can add a new action,
and the actions could be adding filtering,
highlighting, allowing that maybe that action would go to
a URL or additional sources or different actually datasets.
I'm going to select this highlight,
and what you see here now for the highlighting action,
first that you can see what triggers the action.
It could be when they click and select on it,
or it would provide a menu or by hovering.
Let's say that we allow the action to happen by true select.
Then we can say, what is our source?
That means that they can actually select from
the source visualization and see that action into the target.
What we want maybe to say that we want to actually see selecting
different days and see that distribution of the tips for that day.
We select the tip by day as being our source sheet,
and then we want the change to happen maybe in
both of our visualization, so we keep that.
Then we can say, what is the selected field that we want to work with,
and we select the date, the day.
We say, okay, at this.
Now basically what happens is that when you
select a day from this source visualization,
you can see the impact actually in both of them.
You can see now on different points that are basically on the Sunday.
I select Saturday, then you see Saturday.
What's nice is that you can actually see how that changes even our trend line.
You basically see how that change.
This is the overall,
how different days are pretty different.
Like on Saturday, maybe there seems to be
a higher relationship between the tips and bill.
That's the next option for adding the interactivity into your dashboard.
Once you have then created your dashboard,
you can actually publish the dashboard and basically share that.
That's similar to how we published before.
You just click on the Publish option,
and it basically shows you that this is published.
Now if you go to your Tableau Public,
you can see here,
so I'm going to go to that webpage.
If I click on my profile,
I can actually see the different dashboards or different work that I've published.
I can actually click on that.
You can see now this basically dashboard.
You can see how you have the interactivity that you've added.
I can select all of the gender.
I can basically then do these interactions that we have added.
You can see that you can actually download this visualization now.
You can download it as a PDF, as a PowerPoint.
You can actually basically share this link to anyone else,
and they can actually use that to interact with it.
When you share that,
they will have similar options of they can
download or they can actually edit.
If you click on Edit,
then it actually opens it in the same environment that we were working before,
and you can continue changing things and editing your visualization.