Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/fP3mR/introduction-to-tableau

English (auto)
data visualization tool called Tableau.
What is Tableau?
Tableau is a data visualization tool that is designed to
help users to analyze and produce graphs,
dashboards, and data reports.
We are going to be learning about what each of these are,
what is a dashboard, what is a data report.
Tableau is easy to use for creating
these dashboards and analytics
that would allow people to explore data.
It provides feature that are easy to use,
to clean the data,
to organize and visualize the data.
It does not require any prior programming knowledge,
which makes it easy for
different populations to be able to make use of the tool.
It also can connect to several data sources and
allow joining data that come
from different sources and different formats.
We are going to be seeing how to do this
in this module.
So what are some of the advantages of using Tableau?
It provides very quick calculations
because a lot of the calculations
are done actually in the backend.
So compared to some other tools,
makes it faster to actually do these sorts of
calculations on the data.
It provides these interactive dashboards,
which are allowing people to basically manipulate data,
look at kind of how the visualization changes
as they make changes in the data
and interact with this data visualization.
It requires almost no manual calculation
as kind of it basically does the calculation
for the user as the user tries to interact with the data
and creating the visualization,
both at the creation process
and then at the interaction process.
It also somewhat useful to kind of deal with
large amounts of data,
though as you will see this,
there is kind of limit in that aspect.
So some of the disadvantages of Tableau
is that the actual tool is not for free.
What we will be using in this module
is using Tableau Public,
which is version of the Tableau
that is publicly available and is for free,
but has limited features.
So the actual desktop version is actually a paid version.
It is a static and single value parameter.
So like the parameters that are used
for the visualizations are a single value
and you have to like create different sorts
of visualization to like look at different parameters
and those need to be changed manually.
As I mentioned in the last slide,
it does have limits in terms of working
with data and data processing.
So if you have really large data sets,
then Tableau might not be kind of the tool to use
as we have been using basically Python 2
and you have been learning how to use those library
that would be a lot easier kind of to work
with large data sets.
The general process of workflow of Tableau
works in a way that you basically first pick the data source
and connect to that data source
and then do like any analysis that needs to be done
and kind of creating what you want to visualize.
Then you can actually visualize that data
in that workspace that is created in Tableau
and then you have the option of sharing the visualization
as a dashboard or a story,
which in case of Tableau Public
that actually can become publicly available
to anyone to access
and we are going to see how to do that.
The data sources, that is the first step
of basically importing the data and connecting the data.
These data sources could actually be in different formats.
They can be spreadsheets like Excel or CSV.
They can be relational databases such as MySQL databases.
They could be cloud data using Amazon services
or they can kind of integrate other sources
like special files
that include geographical locations as well.
So as I mentioned, we will be using Tableau Public
in this module and in this lesson,
which is a free version of Tableau
that provides interactive data visualization services.
Anyone can publish interactive data visualization
to the web using this Tableau Public
and visualizations that then have been published
can be embedded into web pages and blogs
and they can be shared via social media or email
or other ways that people can basically share them
over the web.
It can be also downloaded by people
to kind of create like their own copy
and make use of that,
which is what we showed kind of in the initial story
of when we looked at the social media use.
One disadvantage of using that
is that you cannot save your workbook
locally in your computer.
And so that's basically just on the web
though you have some control over like who can kind of see
and some of that as well.
So some useful terms to get familiar with
as we start working with Tableau.
First one as I referred to already is a dashboard,
which is basically a collection of views
shown in a single location
where you can compare and monitor
a number of different data simultaneously.
So within a dashboard,
you can actually have these different workspaces
that allow to kind of look at
different visualizations of the data.
The data source, which is the underlying data
that Tableau is connected to,
you cannot change the data source in the Tableau reader.
So once you have connected the data,
you cannot edit it in that kind of
where you can see the data.
Filter that is basically a control and a view
that limits kind of what data is shown in that view.
For example, you can provide a filter region
that only includes the West.
So like if that's kind of a parameter in the data.
A repository, which is a folder located
in your My Documents folder
that stores all the workbooks.
And then a workbook is a collection
of one or more worksheets and dashboards.
And worksheet is basically a single view of the data.
Each worksheet can be connected to a single data source.
So basically what you have is that
you create these workbooks
that are a collection of worksheets.
And then these collection of worksheets
could be included in a dashboard
and your dashboard could be included in your repository.
And every worksheet will be associated with one data source
and you can have different data sources
in different worksheets,
or you can have kind of the same data source
and different kinds of visualization of the data
in different worksheets.
So let's get started using Tableau.
What we are going to be using
as kind of trying the different features of the tool,
we will be using the TIPS datasets
that we used in module four as well.
So you can actually download that dataset
and get started and follow along
as we go through how to use Tableau.
The first step to use Tableau
is that you want to actually go to this URL,
which allows you to access Tableau Public.
And what you would need to do
is that you're going to actually create an account.
So you can go ahead and go to that URL
and click on this button,
which says sign up for Tableau Public.
And once you have signed up,
then you want to click on this link that says create,
which is allowing you to basically creating a workbook
using this web authoring tool.
And then once you have clicked on that,
you are going to be actually seeing the option
to connect to the data source.
As we mentioned, the first step that what you want to do
is to actually create your data source
and connect to the data source.
So here your data could be any of the sources
that we mentioned.
And in this case,
we are going to be using the TIPS dataset.
So you would be basically dragging and dropping your dataset
that you downloaded into kind of this interface.
And that would basically show your data.
You can get started on doing visualization
that we are going to learn in the next lesson,
but also here then to save your work,
what you can do is publish the work.
So that's kind of on the top of the page,
on the top right side,
you can see this publish button.
And that's basically the way that you can save your work.
So make sure that as,
if you're planning to save work that you have done,
you actually make use of this and publish it.
Again, remember that that means
that it's actually publishing it on the web
and not saving it locally on your computer.
And then if you want to access your saved work,
you can, when you log in back.
So if you,
and basically the homepage of your Tableau Public,
you have your little icon,
that's like your profile.
You can actually click on the My Profile
and click basically,
you will see all here,
the visualizations that you have created
and the workbook that you have created.
So you can click on those edits
and click on the edit button to be able to edit
and make changes to your visualization.
Whenever that you access
any of the Tableau Public visualization
that are created by other people,
it's kind of similar process.
You can download it
and then it basically opens into this environment
that you get to,
you can actually edit the visualization
and you can make changes to those visualizations as well.