Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/iVVLZ/lesson-5-demo

English (auto)
Here is how we do that.
So here we have the visualizations.
This is one of the visualizations
that we created, which is basically
showing the average tip on different days.
And then the other visualization that we created
was the visualization that shows the size of the different tip
by the total bill.
And so you can see those visualizations here
in the bottom.
So now to create a dashboard, you
click here on Dashboard and say New Dashboard.
So that creates now your space for dashboard.
And what you can do is that you can actually
add this visualization to your dashboard.
So by default, Tableau aligns these and put them
side by side.
You can also change that into a floating option
and start moving the visualization around
and order them in any way that you want.
You can change the size of this basically screen
that you have here.
You see the size here and change the size
depending on what device the user might
be using the visualization.
Let's see that we want here in this visualization
to have an option to add that filtering of what people
see in the visualization based on gender.
So what you can do is that you can click on the visualization.
And then you basically see this little arrow.
Click on that arrow.
And what you see is then this option of filter.
And you can decide what variable you want to add here to filter.
So let's say that we want to add the sex as the variable.
So now this appears here.
And when you publish this dashboard,
people can actually select these different values
and see the change in the visualization.
So I can now unselect male, which
means that now what is shown here is the tip by female.
Or I can do the reverse.
Now look at male.
And so basically, you see the difference.
And the trend line here also helps
to see that difference even more visibly.
So that's what the interactivity through the filters support.
So the way that we can do that is that we can actually
click here on the dashboard.
And you see the options of action.
So we click on Action.
And we can add a new action.
And the actions could be adding filtering,
highlighting, allowing that maybe that action would
go to a URL or additional sources
or different actually data sets.
So I'm going to select this highlight.
And what you see here now for the highlighting action,
first off, you can see what triggers the action.
It could be when they click and select on it.
Or it would provide a menu or by hovering.
Let's say that we allow the action to happen by true select.
Then we can say, what is our source?
So that means that they can actually
select from the source visualization
and see that action into the target.
So what we want maybe to say that we
want to actually see selecting different days
and see that distribution of the tips for that day.
So we select the tip by day as being our source sheet.
And then we want the change to happen maybe
in both of our visualizations.
So we keep that.
And then we can say, what is the selected field
that we want to work with?
And we select the date, the day.
So we say OK.
And now at this.
So now basically what happens is that when
you select a day from this source visualization,
you can see the impact actually in both of them.
So you can see now on different kind of the points
that are basically on the Sunday.
So I select Saturday.
Then you see Saturday.
And what's nice is that you can actually see how that changes
even our trend line.
And so you basically see kind of how that change.
This is the overall.
You can see kind of how different days
are pretty different.
So like on Saturday, maybe there seems
to be a kind of higher relationship
between the tips and bill.
So that's the next option for adding the interactivity
into your dashboard.
So once you have then created your dashboard,
you can actually publish the dashboard
and basically share that.
And that's similar to how we published before.
So you just click on the Publish option.
And it basically shows you that this is published.
So now if you go to your Tableau public, you can see here.
So I'm going to go to that web page.
And if I click on my profile, I can actually
see these things, the different dashboards or different work
that I've published.
So I can actually click on that.
You can see now this basically dashboard.
You can see how you have the interactivity
that you have added.
So I can say select all of the gender.
I can basically then do these kind of interactions
that we have added.
And you can see that you can actually
download this visualization now.
You can download it as a PDF, as a PowerPoint.
And you can actually basically share this link to anyone else.
And they can actually use that to interact with it.
And so when you share that, they will have similar options
of they can download or they can actually edit.
So if you click on Edit, then it actually
opens it in the same environment that we were working before.
And you can continue changing things and editing
your visualization.