Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/ZWZiO/lesson-3-demo

English (auto)
Here is basically that's what you should
be seeing if you are following along and you
have done what we covered in the last lesson,
which is creating your account and then
logging in and then starting basically with the tips dataset,
and you should be able to basically see these information here.
The first thing is that we can,
let's say that for example,
we want to look at how to visualize average amount of tip over different days.
Here the days then is basically
our qualitative dimension that we want to look at,
then the numerical tip data over those days.
What we are going to do is that we can drag the day into the column,
and then you can actually click on this little arrow that appears there,
making sure that that is considered as a dimension,
and we basically just leave it there.
Then we can now drag tip here,
and so you can see that by default,
it basically does some aggregation,
so showing the total amount of tips for that day.
Let's say that we want to look at the average tip.
What you can do is that you can click again on
this and you can go to the measure.
Remember, this is now a numerical field,
which is a measure, and choose the average here.
Now we can see the average amount of tips over different days.
One of the things is that you can notice here that the days maybe are
not sorted in the order of the day of the week,
so you can actually sort your data.
We can click here again on that little arrow and click on
sort and either you can sort it ascending or descending,
or you can actually sort it manually in this case,
because of the order that we want to show the days.
Let's say that we want to make sure that that follows the day of the week,
so it starts with Thursday and Friday,
Saturday, Sunday, and so now your data is sorted.
The other thing that you can do is,
as I mentioned, you can have these calculated fields so that you can
add other information and data into your visualization.
Let's say that, for example,
here we want to show the error bars over this average amount of tips over the day,
so we want to make sure that we can show an error bar,
which is like one standard deviation.
What you can do is that you can actually do these calculated fields.
We want to, here in this case,
calculate the standard deviation of tips,
so what you do is that you click on this little arrow here,
and then we can say,
create calculated fields, and here it allows you to
basically provide any calculation that you want to do.
In this case, we want our error bar to be the average amount of tip,
so it actually shows that by default.
If you start typing, it also shows
the functions that are available for the calculation.
This is going to be the average tip plus the standard deviation.
Here again, you can see all the different function,
and we want the standard deviation of tip.
Basically, then just say,
okay, and it's going to now be adding these fields here,
which is your error bars.
Now, if I want to add the error bars here to my visualization,
I can go to the analytics tab,
and we're going to be looking more into the analytics in the next lesson as well.
But here, we want to add a reference line,
which is basically our error bar.
You drag this and drop it here,
and in this case,
we want the reference for each of the cells,
so just drag it into the cell,
and then you see basically now these options that you can add.
What we wanted to do is that we wanted to have this error bar,
so we're just going to drag the error bar so that we have that also available.
Then here, we want the option of line,
to be added, and we want this error bar that we calculated,
the average of error for each of the cells,
and now you can see actually that you have
that error bar added to your visualization.
As I mentioned before,
now we can actually publish this visualization to make sure that it's actually saved,
so that would be available to come and to work with it again.
Okay.