Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/the-art-of-data-visualization/lecture/1XOFc/module-6-lesson-4-demo

English (auto)
Okay. So let's look at the demo that see
how the filter options and some of the analytics options of Tableau works.
Let's say that we want to create a scatterplot to look
at the tip by the size of the bill.
So what we are going to do is that we are going to move
the bill and the tip into our row and column.
Because we want to do in this case that see basically these as single data points,
you're going to change these to dimension,
as you can see here.
Then we can basically click on this show me,
and you can see this is like it decides as a scatterplot.
So we have these nice scatterplot that basically
shows how the tip is distributed across the total bill.
We can also switch this around to have the total bill
being on the x-axis and having the tip on the y-axis.
So now let's say that we want to filter out by different gender.
So what we can do is that we can drag that sex variable into the filters here,
and so that opens the filter option,
and then you can say that we want to just have female,
or we just want to have like male,
so and basically apply that into our dataset,
and that's going to change what we see.
So that's the filtering options that is available.
So I'm going to now remove maybe the filter,
have all of the data,
and what we can do is now look at,
so we want to see what is actually the trend of how this tip relates to the total bill.
We can see that this probably as the size of the bill increases,
the tip also increases,
but we want to see what models it most accurately.
So what we can do is go to this Analytics tab,
and then you can see this trend line.
So similar to what we did with the reference line,
we basically drag it,
and then you are seeing here is these different options.
So let's say that we'll start by linear.
So then what you've done,
so you can actually click on this line,
and then this basically provides the information about the fit,
which is the r squared is one variable that is important.
So that shows the fit and the p-value that mentioned.
So you can use this information to decide what is the best fit.
You can also see the equation of this linear regression model here.
So let's say that I'm going to now remove this one and try a different trend line.
So again, drag this,
and then let's say that we think it's maybe more like a logarithmic model.
So then that shows the pattern.
Again, if you click on it,
now it shows you the equation for the logarithmic.
So that's like a linear logarithmic,
and then you can see the r squared here and the p-value.
So in both cases, the p-values are significant.
Your r squared is slightly smaller.
You want to have actually higher r squared here.
So that probably says that the linear model probably was slightly better fit.
But in both cases, probably these are good fit.
So that's how you can use the filter and the analytics parts of Tableau also
to have additional information that you can add to your visualization.