Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/nIkug/exploring-syntax-and-shortcuts-in-linear-model-formulations

English
I'll name it fit_b gets
assigned smf.ols formula
data .fit, data is df,
formula y ~ x1 + x2 + x1:x2.
If we check the coefficient estimates, you can see the values are literally the same.
But even more importantly, if we check the standard errors,
those are also the same as our previous attempt.
If we check the p values, those are also the same.
So therefore it's really a colon that we should use to
denote the product or multiplication.
However, do you see that there's a lot we have to
type here if we want to use main effects and interactions?
Again, going back to the discussion
about the age of the formula interface,
the formula interface created a shortcut
to include main effects and interactions in the model.
The shortcut is to use the asterisk operator in the formula interface.
So I'm going to name this one fit_c smf.ols,
there's a formula, there's a data set .fit.
Again, the data set is df, but now the formula y ~ x1 * x2.
This looks like we are just multiplying x1 and x2 together.
But in the formula interface, the formula argument to smf,
the formula interface actually interprets
this as include the main effects and the interaction,
Even though we only said multiply, but
we multiplied with the asterisk, and so because of that,
we get the slope multiplying x1 by itself, the main effect,
the slope multiplying x2 by itself, the main effect,
and the slope multiplying the product of the two.
And again, this is the exact same as what we had previously,
it's the exact same as what we had on the standard errors,
it's the exact same for the p values.
The asterisk can really streamline everything that you type in,
because you don't have to literally type everything in.
You don't have to literally type the main and the interactions.
This means if we would only want products,
then we should use the colon operator in the formula.
So I'll name this one fit_d smf.ols formula data .fit.
Again, data is df,
formula, now y ~ x1:x2.
We don't see any of the main effects.
So the reason why the formula interface uses colon
as something separate from asterisk is because
asterisk means both main effects and products.
And as you can see, the coefficient on the interaction
term is different than when we have the main effects included in the model for
the reasons discussed in the previous video.
There is one more way of representing the shortcut,
and this is related to why we need
to use np.power when we want to raise
an input to a polynomial degree.
And the reason why I bring this up is because let's take df x1,
and in Bayes Python notation, if I want to square it,
and here, let's just show the first few values so
we're not printing out a whole lot of things.
If I square every value of x one in base Python,
I could use the colon colon operator.
This is equivalent to taking
the np.power method and
applying the second power,
the second degree.
So these two are the same.
If we would use the asterisk,
sorry, the asterisk asterisk or
the power operator in our formula,
it will not raise the variable to that power.
So let's now put in the formula y
~ x1**2 + x2**2.
You might think this means square x1 and square x2.
But when you check the coefficients that get estimated, you do not see x1 squared.
You only see x1 by itself and x2 by itself.
This is equivalent to just
a linear additive model.
And let's confirm that here.
If I type in y ~ x1 + x2 fit_f.params, same thing.