Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/E3JIj/key-material-for-module-12

English
Hello everyone, welcome to the 11th week of the semester.
In this week, you're going to learn how to handle working with more than one input.
Up to this point, you have seen how to fit, interpret, make predictions with, and
visualize the models, but everything has been with a single input.
You have derived nonlinear features from that input,
but we often need to learn how to work with many inputs.
This will be demonstrated with two continuous inputs, but
all of the concepts apply to many.
You'll learn how to interpret the coefficients,
the slopes of them, and how to visualize the behavior.
You will learn the two main ways of dealing with multiple inputs
having additive or interaction features.
You again will see how to interpret those coefficients,
whether they are additive or interaction, and
you will see how interactions impact all of those interpretations.
The other thing that you're going to learn about this week for regression
models is what do you do if you have a categorical input or a non-numeric input?
Because in order to have a non-numeric variable, features must be
derived from the categories in order for the models to work.
You will learn about the two most common ways of dealing with this,
through dummy variables and how they are so interpretable,
as well as one-hot encoding to contrast these two.
I will also give my opinion as to why I prefer dummy variables over one-hot,
but you need to know these two in order to work in different data analysis settings.
The last thing that you will learn about for this week is we have focused so
much of our effort on regression tasks, but
that's not the only kind of modeling task you will work on.
You also need to know how to handle classification.
Now, classification does not have a continuous output.
Instead, you are trying to classify categorical output categories.
You will learn how to do that with logistic regression.
You will learn why we can't use the linear model for
the categorical output.
You will learn why it's called logistic regression.
And you will also see the consequence of what happens if you do not make this
change, if you do not work with logistic regression for a classification problem.
So in review, you're going to learn practical issues of working
with more than one continuous input, how to interpret and
how they challenge your interpretations.
You will learn how you can have a categorical input for a regression
problem, and you will learn what happens when the output is categorical and
why you need to have a completely different type of model to handle that.