Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/TZXpQ/understanding-line-visualization-and-additive-features-in-seaborn

English
Now, later on, not this week, but after this week,
we will see situations where this averaging is useful.
But by default, that's what Seaborn is doing,
even if you don't want to average it.
To turn it off, we must tell Seaborn to
not calculate a summary estimator,
we must also tell Seaborn what defines each line.
Seaborn refers to this as the units of the line,
and I'm using that name very specifically.
The units define a line.
Let's go ahead and use the same sns rel plot figure level
function data equals study with respect to x1 df,
x equals x1, y equals trend, kind equals line.
To tell it do not calculate a summary estimator,
we must set the estimator argument to none.
To specify what defines a single line, we need to set the units argument.
In our example, each line corresponds to a unique value of x2.
We therefore need to set the units argument to x2.
And x2 is provided as a string because it is a column in our data frame.
Now, if you run your PLT show, if you then show this plot,
you do not see one single line with a confidence interval, a ribbon.
Instead, you see distinct separate lines.
However, we cannot tell the difference between the lines.
They all have the same color.
We can associate the line color to
x2 via the hue argument.
So let's make it again, sns rel
data equals study wrt x1 df, x equals x1,
y equals trend, kind equals line, q equals x2.
But now estimator equals none, units equal x2.
The line color is a unique value of x2, and
we are telling it each line is uniquely defined by an x2 value.
By default, we get the default color palette that shows
us we have an increasing value of x2 from the lowest line up to the top line.
So, do you see this bright colored value?
That's the lowest value of x2, the dark line, that's the highest value of x2.
We can, of course, change that color palette.
So let's go ahead and do so.
Study with respect to x1 df, x equals x1,
y equals trend, kind equals line,
hue equals x2, palette equals viridis,
estimator equals none, units equals x2.
Now you can see the low values of x2 are the dark blue,
the middles are the green, the highest values are bright yellow.
Let me copy the code in this cell because we could also
use a diverging color palette like cool warm.
Here, I'm using the diverging color palette so
that you can see values below the midpoint of x2 and
values above the midpoint of x2.
Now what's going on?
Or why does this matter?
Regardless of our color palette, and even if we didn't explicitly use it,
When we have additive features,
when we are adding the effect of
input two to the effect of input one,
we are literally shifting the line up or down.
These separate lines that you can see,
they are simply shifted due to the effect of x2.
And what impacts that effect?
Well, we have a slope times x2.
Look closely one more time.
Let me find near zero.
If I move one unit over on the x axis,
that gives me a one unit change of input one.
Our average output or trend is still changing by
roughly two units because the slope multiplying input one is roughly 2.
However, you only see a very small gap between each of these colored lines.
The reason is because the slope multiplying input
two is almost 10 times smaller than the slope multiplying input one.
So a one unit change of x2 results in a very
small change on the average output.
Additive features add the effect
of one input to the other.
If the inputs have roughly the same magnitude and
scale, the magnitude of the slope tells
you which input causes the greater
change on the average output.
That's what this is trying to illustrate to you.
Remember when we did clustering where we had to consider the magnitude and scale?
This is also important when we interpret linear models.
If we have different magnitudes and scales, we need to standardize the inputs.
That way we can have this interpretation of which input has
the largest magnitude slope.