Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/ZFlnC/visualizing-linear-relationships-in-regression-models

English
But before we go through how to interpret the fitting results,
let's visualize what this model looks like.
Specifically, I want to visualize what the average output or
trend looks like with respect to input one for
a given or single value of input two.
Okay, let's now go back into our Jupyter notebook.
Let's begin with additive features using or
additive linear relationships.
So I'll put in a section header, additive linear relationships.
Okay, now we will define a function
that calculates the average output or
trend given input one and input two and
the three regression coefficients.
The purpose of this function is to allow
visualizing the trend with respect to input one.
So I'm going to define a function, def to define a function,
calc for calculate, trend, wrt with respect to x1.
Okay, I'm using names consistent with the equations in the slide deck.
So calc the trend with respect to x1.
This function will have the following arguments, x1 comma x2.
So my two inputs b0, b1 and b2.
I'm using b in Python everywhere where you see a beta in the slides.
This is a function, so I need the colon operator to define it, and
now I go inside the body.
Let's create a temporary Pandas data frame that I'll name res_df.
It equals a dataframe, and I'll create that data
frame from a dictionary where the key is x1 and
the value is x1 that I'm providing.
Now I am in setting this up, intending it to have
multiple values of x1 and just a single value of x2.
So let's now go ahead and add x2 as a column to our data frame.
x1 will have multiple values, x2 will have a single value.
Let's now calculate the trend or the average output.
And remember, the trend is intercept plus slope of input one
times input one plus slope of input two times input two.
Let's now see that in code.
Let's define the new column trend
intercept plus slope times input
one plus slope times input two.
Again, I'm accessing the column x1 and x2 using the dot notation,
and then let's return the temporary data frame res_df.
To demonstrate the relationships, let's define the following coefficients.
Now, as we discussed over the last couple weeks,
these coefficients will ultimately be estimated when we fit the linear model.
But to understand and interpret what's going on,
let's just specify these values for now.
I want my intercept to be negative 0.25.
I want slope one to be 1.95, and slope two to be 0.2.
Again, I am making these choices.
I could have made the coefficients much larger.
I could have made the coefficients smaller.
I could have flipped the signs, made the coefficients negative or one negative,
one positive.
But this is what I decided to use.
The main thing I want you to focus on though is notice the slope
multiplying input one is larger than the slope multiplying input two.
And we will examine the consequence of that here shortly.
Let's now define 101 evenly or
uniformly spaced values of the input x1
between negative three and positive three.
Let's create an object x1_values,
which is the result of NP linspace from negative three
to positive three with 101 evenly spaced values.
So the num argument is used, number of points 101.
The result is a numpy nd array.
It's a one dimensional array that has 101 values.
Let's calculate the average output for
a single value of x2 at zero.
How trend with respect to x1,
x1 values zero, b0, b1, b2.
The result, as you can see, is a data frame.
X2, we can see printed to screen, has one and only one unique value.
But of course, we can confirm that,
With the value counts.
Oops, I made a mistake.
Should be x1 values.
There we go.
x2 has one unique value zero with 100, and it appears 101 times.
Let's visualize the relationship
between the average output and input one.
Let's do that with Seaborne.
SNS, a relationship plot is created by the rel plot figure level function.
Now, what will be the data?
The data here is the data frame resulting from
our function calc trend with respect to x1,
x1 values x2 of zero, b0, b1, b2, x equals x1.
y equals trend, kind equals line.
So I'm explicitly telling Seaborne I want a line chart.
So set the kind argument to line.
We get a diagonal line.
It's a linear relationship, because remember, we are working with that
the input one is linearly related to the trend or the average output.
If you look closely, here's when x1 is zero,
the intercept is not exactly zero, but it's close to it.
It's actually negative 0.25.
It's equal to the intercept we set.
But if we have a one unit change of our input x and we go up,
we find the line, we see the trend is very close to two.
Meaning the average output has a change of roughly two,
or has a change very close to two for a one unit change of the input.
Because the slope is literally how much does the output
change on average, for one unit change of the input.
And remember, we set that the slope is very close to two.