Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/AMmXy/analysis-of-dataframe-groups

English
This might seem like a good thing, but now,
it doesn't tell us that we were using the mean.
For example, there's nothing in the returned
result that says this is in fact the mean, or
sample average versus the standard deviation, or
The standard error on the mean.
We would have to remember what method we are using to calculate the summary stat.
To further complicate things, if we would instead say,
okay, I will just apply describe() to the entire group data set.
And all of my concerns go away, because now I know, here's the variable,
the column, and here's the summary stat associated with it.
So now, I know that this is the mean of B when E is A,
Versus, this is the mean of G when E is A.
This looks like it's everything.
And by the way, this is just the numeric columns.
We could also tell it,
To only include the objects.
We can therefore get the number of uniques for
A when E is A, the number of uniques for H when E is A.
See if the number of uniques vary across the groups.
And so, this seems like it's what we want, but I dislike it.
And the reason why I dislike it has to do with the way the naming is ordered.
Because at first glance, it might seem like that, hey,
it's just trying to present, here's the column, and here's the summary stat.
But this organizational style is very specific in Pandas,
this is known as a hierarchical multiindex.
I'm going to show you that now by applying describe(),
and pulling out its columns attribute.
The columns are no longer just one value.
As a multiindex, the only way to access any one of
these individual values is to provide this tuple,
which has the original column name and its summary stat.
I find the multiindex incredibly annoying,
downright confusing, and it leads to more problems than it helps,
even though the Pandas community says how great it is.
Part of the reason why I think it's so confusing,
well, if you use the multiindex to extract out one of the values,
It prints just like a regular Pandas series, and we have to go to
the name attribute to find out what it is we actually just extracted.
And by the way, if we mess up,
Putting in the multiindex, we get an error.
So I find the multiindex to be very strange and annoying.
So I don't like to do it.
I don't like to just apply the summary methods directly to the groupby.
Thankfully, Pandas provides multiple
different ways to APPLY summary
methods to GROUPED dataframes.
I personally like the .groupby().aggregate() approach.
I feel this is the most flexible yet
straightforward way to apply summary
methods to different columns.
Because I fundamentally dislike, the way I was showing you before,
of applying one method to the grouped dataframe,
because that method is applied to every single column.
And we have to use particular arguments to
make sure we are applying it to the correct data type.
I don't like that.
The approach that I'm about to show you
allows us to pick the method to apply, and
to pick which column we apply that method to.
So it gives us maximum flexibility.