Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/0JFIG/analyzing-columns-with-describe-and-value-counts

English
Lastly, it is always important to
begin summarizing the columns, and
we know how to apply the mean method,
which we need to specify numeric only.
But instead of having to go through and apply mean,
standard deviation, min and max and everything else,
we can just call the dot describe method.
And now when you do this, you not only get the number
of non missing rows via the count, you also get mean,
standard deviation, min, max and then these quantiles.
We will discuss these quantiles in more detail when we go into
visualization via the box plot.
But by df.describe only focuses
on numeric columns, you can change
that with the include argument.
If you set include to object, now you get these summary stats,
the count number of non missing, the number of unique,
the most frequent values, how many times the most
frequent value occurs for objects or strings.
You can have every single column included, but
the summary table looks weird because you get the missing entries for
the summary stats really specific for categoricals,
and then the summary stats specific for numerics in the different columns.
So I never recommend doing include all,
I think it's better to summarize the numeric columns and
then summarize the strings categorical columns.
After this, the next step is to begin counting
the categorical or string columns.
For example, A we see from describe has 12
total rows with 12 non missing rows and 12 unique values.
So we can now apply my favorite pandas method value counts.
At first this result doesn't seem very interesting, but
it is telling us each unique value has 1 and only 1 row or 1 count.
Value count, similar to n unique
is ignoring the missings by default.
So if you also set dropna= false, now you will
get how many rows there are for missing values.
This is really the more complete way of getting the counts.
Again, you can run the default, but
then it's always a good practice to check if you know that there are missings.
And after all,
that's one of the you need to always check how many missings per column.
Let's look at another categorical variable such as D E and H.
We'll just go through these
manually here, D value counts,
I'll jump straight to dropna as false E.
E has four unique values plus one more for the missing.
Now the counts are really useful,
they're telling us how many rows are present per value,
but it's also good information to know
the proportion per unique value.
And you can get the proportion via normalize.
So value counts normalize equal to true.
This no longer returns the number of rows it returns
the proportion of the rows per unique value.
So 20% of all of the rows in the data frame have this unique value for E.
However, I do not feel you should only show
the proportion, because saying hey,
7% of the rows are this one value, I have no context for
what that means without first knowing the count.
So again, always show the raw count
before you show the proportion.
It puts everything into context, yes, 7% of the rows are this one value, but
there's only one row that has this value, that really puts everything into context.
Value counts are very important to look at for
strings or categorical or non numeric columns,
but it's also important to consider
value counts for numeric columns.
And you want to look at the value counts for
a numeric column when that column has few unique values.
For example, column F only has four values, even though it is an integer.
We get what the unique values are and how many times they appear in the data set.
Again, we can also include in missings if there are missings, and
after looking at the raw counts, it's useful to see the proportion.
But so that again, in summary, when you start counting,
you want to count more than just categoricals.
You also want to count the columns that have the numeric columns
that have relatively few unique values, and relatively few,
in my opinion, when you're exploring less than seven, maybe less than $10.