Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/1hdXX/combining-data-frames-with-joins

English
Hello everyone. In this video,
we will continue combining data frames.
As you can see, I have
Jupyter Notebook or have Jupyter launched and opened.
I'm in the same working directory
as our previous examples.
Especially we have the same CSV files
from a previous recording that we will be using,
again, in this one.
If you don't have Jupyter
opened up in the right location,
please pause the video and do so now.
Now I will create a new Jupyter Notebook.
I'm going to name it Week 05,
combine, joins or merge.
Go ahead and put in some header information,
combine data frames, join or merge.
Let's import modules.
We need NumPy and pandas.
So it just says with the previous recordings,
NumPy and pandas.
Also something that you're going to
get very comfortable with reading in data.
Let's read in the three CSV files
from the previous recording.
Those three CSV files were name example A,
B, and C, and we'll name the red in objects, DFA,
which gets the result of
read CSV applied to the example A,
CSV file, then DFB,
read CSV to the example B file,
and then DFC
read CSV example file.
I want to first begin by
examining the DFA and DFB data frames.
DFA, remember it has six columns and 12 rows.
DFB, however, has two columns and three rows.
Now our previous recording discussed vertical,
which are stacking two data frames on top of each other.
Vertical concatenation and horizontal concatenation,
which are binding two data frames left to right.
When we vertically stack,
we need to have the same number of columns.
We need to have the same columns
that we are adding rows to.
When we horizontally combine,
we can have different columns,
but must have the same number of rows.
Obviously, DFB and DFA are different shapes.
DFA, 12 rows,
six columns, DFB, three rows, two columns.
You might be wondering, how can we combine?
Well, I want you to look very closely.
DFA has the column E, as does DFB.
In DFA, we can see the value AA,
BB, CC, and DD.
Well, look in DFB,
there's AA, BB, and DD.
If we could merge or join the two data frames together,
we could bring in a variable or column from DFB into
DFA Based on the values
on E. Everywhere where we see E equals AA,
we could have equaling G equaling 100.
Everywhere where we see values of E being BB,
we could have G having values of 200,
so on and so forth.
The concept of joining or merging data
is joining or merging data,
combines data frames not
based on the row or column position,
but based on the values of variables or columns.
Joining is really about linking up
rows based on values in the two data sets.
Now I'm going to be showing you the code to do that,
but the supplemental reading for
this week comes from the great book R for Data Science.
This is an R book not a Python book,
but its illustrations are really excellent at discussing
and visualizing what happens
with different kinds of joins.
I'm going to be talking about inner,
left, and right joins in this recording.
Please read this supplemental reading to get
a nice pictorial view of what's actually happening
when data sets are join or merged together.