Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/Muwqg/concatenate-part-2

English
We learned about a second kind
of concatenation with numpy.
We've learned about the horizontal concatenation
or binding columns together.
Our previous function called pd.concat.
Although we specified the two data frames
we would combine,
the default axis argument is zero,
meaning the data frames are vertically combined.
Really, this is what was running behind
the scenes axis equals zero.
But just as with numpy,
if we change axis to axis equals one,
then the two data frames will be combined horizontally.
Pd.concat(dfA0, dfA1), axis equals one.
As you can see, we still have 12 rows.
But look closely at the header row.
Now the column names are repeating.
It's not the index that repeats,
it's the columns repeat.
Let's confirm this by doing it one more time.
Axis equals to one.
But now extract out the columns attribute,
and you can see, yes,
the A column, as well as every other column repeats.
The column names are no longer unique.
Pd.concat(dfA0, dfA1), axis one.
If we use the LOC attribute here,
I just want to highlight,
literally we get multiple columns out for A and
B. I think this is very bad.
I really dislike that pandas
allows combining data frames horizontally,
even if they have the same column names.
I really dislike this.
Be careful when you horizontally combine.
For example, maybe you were
intending to vertically concat,
but you accidentally set axis equal to one,
you will get repeated column names
and your data analysis will essentially break,
even though pandas right now will not break.
Basically, everything that comes after
this step is what will break.
Why would we ever horizontally combine?
Well, it's when you want to
combine different columns together.
Let's demonstrate this by creating
a subset where we take,
how about the first three columns?
Do the hard copy,
I'll call it dfA_left,
then we take the last two columns,
and I'll assign that to dfA_right dfA_left.
Again, you can see three columns.
DfA_right, again,
you can see two columns.
The point of horizontally combining is to bring
together different columns that
have the same number of rows.
Pd.concat(dfA_left, dfA_right), axis equal to one.
But be careful if
you ignore the index with horizontal concatenation,
pd.concat(dfA_left, dfA_right), axis equal
to one, ignore_index=true.
If you ignore the index
when you're horizontally concatenating,
you will remove the column names.
If you are horizontally concatenating,
I recommend never ignoring
the index because your column names
will literally go away.
In summary, you vertically combine or vertically stack,
vertically concatenate when you
essentially want to add two data frames together.
They have the same columns or variables,
you want to grow your data.
Your data has more rows.
You want to horizontally concatenate
when you want to bring together different variables,
different columns that have
the same number of rows into one new data frame.