Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/NhL5t/creating-our-dataframe

English
Hello everyone. In this video we're going to talk about
filtering pandas data frames with strings.
As you can see, I already have
Jupiter Notebook opened up.
I navigated into a directory
within the project we've been working in,
called Week 5,
I'm going to make a new Jupiter Notebook.
Please pause the recording and create
your own Jupiter Notebook in
the appropriate directory before continuing.
Let's go ahead and name this file, Week 05,
Filter Pandas with strings.
Great.
Now I put in some pandas.
Filter pandas with strings.
We will import modules.
We need NumPy and pandas,
the two modules we worked with last week.
Now before we get into filtering with strings,
let's just do a quick review of data frames.
Let's create the baseball related data frame
that we worked with last week.
If you remember, that began by
defining a dictionary that had four keys,
city, team, division, and league.
The value for the city key is the name of
the cities for the teams
in the same division as the Pittsburgh Pirates.
Here I'm typing in Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Chicago,
St. Louis, and lastly Milwaukee.
Then for the team, the Pirates,
the Reds, the Cubs,
the Cardinals, and the Brewers.
For the division,
we have five times the central to repeat it,
for the league five times the NL to repeat it.
Here is our dictionary,
and just as we did last week,
let's convert it into a pandas data frame.
Just to show the argument,
let's go ahead and use
the columns argument to change the column ordering
such that the league division and
the columns are before the city and the team columns.
Great. We now have four columns.
Let's add a column for the number of games back.
We made this column last week called games_back,
and we will assign it as a series.
We will make that series by giving it a list.
That list will contain five numbers, 31.5,
27.5, 22.5,
0, and 7.5.
To be exact, let's set
the index argument to be
the index of our baseball data frame.
Great, now as we did last week,
let's sort by the games back column.
We will ignore the index and modify in place.
We're here using the sort values
method where we are sorting by games back.
We will ignore the index and we will modify in place.
Now the Cardinals are the top row instead of the Pirates.
Let's add two more columns that have
values which change down the rows, baseball_df wins.
Again, we'll add these values as panda series.
Let's set the index to be the same as the index for
baseball_df and then adding a column for the losses.
Again, panda series numbers 63,
70, 85,
90, and 94.
Again, setting the index to be the same as
the data frames index. Very good.
We have 1, 2,
3, 4, 5, 6,
7 columns, let's add one more.
Lastly, add a column with a constant value down all rows.
This last column will be for the season,
and it's just equal to 2022.
Pandas replicates the value down all the rows for us.
Excellent, we've now made the data frame in
the same state as it was
for many of our examples last week.