Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/8ne0q/exploratory-data-analysis-with-the-titanic-dataset

English
All right, so I know that this is not a necessarily interesting example.
Let's follow all of the same steps for a realistic setting.
Let's follow the same steps to get the same
type of basic information on a real data set.
We will load this data set from a package, from a module.
We will use the seaborn module.
You have to import seaborne as SNS.
And now let's load in the dataset titanic
using the sns.load_dataset function.
We begin with the shape.
There's now almost 900 rows and 15 columns.
Here are the names of all of the columns.
Now, pandas, if you display the object, it gives you a little snippet.
You get the head, then there's a break,
and then you get the tail.
This can be helpful if you literally want to see the values that are present.
But as you can see, we're not literally looking at all 891 rows.
If you just want the head, you can use the head method.
If you just want the tail, you can use the tail method.
But again, this is only useful to give you just a quick little snippet,
an idea of the values.
But we're literally not looking at all 891 rows for the 15 columns.
Next, let's check the data types.
We can get a summary for the number of variables per data type.
Five are objects or strings.
Four integers, two are floats.
We have two Booleans, and we even have categoricals.
We will talk about the category specific data type later.
I will often refer to objects, Booleans,
categories as all basically categories.
Let's look at the info.
We get that same kind of information.
891 rows, 15 columns.
Again, why do I dislike the non-null count?
Well, from a quick glimpse, when you just quickly scan through here,
it's easy to miss those columns that have less than 891.
So instead, titanic is .na sum.
How many columns have exactly zero missings?
You can see there are most of them.
How many columns have more than zero missing?
So at least one missing.
There's four of them, the most being the deck variable.
And we actually saw that when we saw the little glimpse, the NAs there, the NaNs.
Next, we need to know the number of unique values.
Survived has 2, alive has 2,
p class has 3, class has 3.
You can also check what happens if we do not draw the missings.
Survived and p class, that doesn't change.
Next, let's summarize.
Let's describe the numerics.
Look at the survived column.
We see it has a minimum of 0 and a maximum of 1.
Here's its mean value.
But we previously saw that survived has just two unique values.
So let's apply value counts to it.
The two values are 0 and 1.
If we would look into this data set in more detail, read about it,
1 means the person did survive, 0 means the person did not survive.
If we now normalize to get the proportions,
that corresponds to 38% survived.
Next, we describe the objects.
Alive has 2 unique values.
No is the top occurring one, 549 rows.
If we apply value counts, you see we get the exact same counts as survived.
We're not going to talk about combinations of two variables this week.
But survived and alive are literally the same thing.
They're just encoded differently.
No and yes versus 0 and 1.
That's why the counts are the same.
That's something we'll come back to later.
If we want to see the other data types,
we just need to include Them inside the include argument.
Okay?
Let's now take a look at value counts for a few of the other variables.
We could go through more, but just for
the sake of time, I'm only going to do two more p class.
Let's check the
Proportions Class.
Now, if you try to run with the dot notation on class,
because class is one of the columns,
it has three unique values.
You won't see anything displayed and
you'll get an error because class is a reserved word in python.
So if we need to use class, here,
we need the bracket notation, oops, with the string.
And p class was just a numeric version of this variable.
So p class 3 is the same as third class.
P class 1 is the same as first class.
P class 2 is the same as second class.
So again, this data set, it actually has the same information
repeated a few times across different variables, different columns.
We can get the proportions just to demonstrate it.
And then one more for this example, titanic deck value counts.
But deck, remember, this is one of
the variables with a large number of missings.
So at first glance, it looks like, hey, we only have a handful of,
or we only have a relatively small number of rows here per unique value.
But that's because the counts are dominated by missing entries.
So this is a situation where it is really important
when you're exploring to not drop the missings because it's 77% of the rows.
These are the kinds of actions that you need to do for
any dataset when you're working with pandas.
By the end of the semester,
you will become very comfortable going through this basic information.
I hope you like this video, again, as a summary of these
actions since we've been slowly building up to get here.
Thank you, and I'll see you in the next one.