Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/lL4Lb/join-types-and-handling-missing-values

English
If we would, however,
instead use a right join.
Then all key values
present in the right data set are rotated.
In DFB, AA, BB and DD are present.
The left dataset has the E=CC.
Let's go ahead and run the code.
The left dataset is A,
the right dataset is B.
You have to specify the same key,
but now how is right?
The result has nine rows,
we no longer see the NANs,
we no longer see the missings.
For this example,
the right join and inner join produce the same result.
The left join generated missing values.
However, and this is really important,
that may not always be the case,
you might have situations where
the inner join behaves like the left join.
The right join generates the missings.
To see that, let's see what happens if we
use a right join between DFA and DFC.
The third DFA, as a reminder,
DFC, DFC and DFA do not share.
The column is shared between the two.
If we join on,
we can bring in the values of H. This will allow us to
associate any column in DFA to the H column,
which is only present in DFC.
Now, if you are looking closely at this example,
DFA only has two unique values of
10.20 The other two values present in DFC,
30 and 40 are not in DFA.
With that in mind, let's execute PD merge.
Dfa is the left,
DFC is the right.
The key that we join on is now,
because that's the column
shared between the two datasets.
How equals right now with the right join.
Do you see the joined data frame contains
the two values only
available or present in the right dataset?
This causes all of
the other columns from DFA to have missings.
If we contrast that
with the how equals left join,
you can see we only have the 12 rows.
We do not have the additional two from F. H,
we only see A to B,
AA, AAA, and BBB present.
If we compare that one to
the inner join in this case,
and the left join are the same,
and it's the right join that's generating the missings.
The point of demonstrating this to you here is
missing values can be generated by joins.
We are bringing together
columns from one dataset into another dataset.
If we do not have
an exact association between the columns,
then missings occur also.
As a note, I personally like to use
the larger dataset as
the left and the smaller dataset as the right.
That's my personal style,
you don't have to follow that.
But I think it's easiest to think
that way where you have a big data
set and it's like you're trying to
attach or link it to something smaller.
Also D merge function is
available as a method via
the merge method or Pandas data frames.
You could either use PD merge
or you can start with a dataset and get its merge method.
The dataset you start with is the left dataset.
Now you specify the data to join to
it as the right data set
on a key with a specified type of join.
Here I'm using the right again.