Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/mUf0Y/key-material-for-module-5

English
This week we will continue working with pandas data frames.
You will begin by reviewing how to create and
filter the data frame, but you will learn something new.
Let's learn more about filtering by strings.
Then, we demonstrate how to actually get data,
rather than us all always manually typing in data to create the data frames instead,
you learn how to read data from Excel, from CSV files, download from websites,
and load data from existing modules into pandas data frames.
Because at the end of the day, if we're exploring and modeling data,
we need to know how to get data into the programming language.
One of the aspects of this portion of the module is,
we show how the index becomes and
the headers the columns are an important set of arguments for
knowing how to appropriately read data into pandas.
So that's why reading data was not the first thing demonstrated
when we worked with pandas we first saw how to just create them manually.
But after we know how to read data in,
we then need to know how to combine data frames.
We discuss vertically and horizontally, stacking two operations we saw in numpy.
But then we introduce a new way to combine data.
Joins or mergers should be a g,
merging based on column values.
Joins or merging of data is so critical, it's actually a major
theme of comp 2110, one of the classes that follow,
cause it's so essential to designing of databases.
Here we introduce missing values because when you join data, missings can occur.
So we demonstrate what missings are.
In the examples after we've learned how to read data in and
then how to join data the remaining examples
use a joined data set that we create.
Now that we have a data set to work with, then we actually get into one
of the major themes of the course, learning how to explore data.
We introduce exploratory data analysis, or EDA,
here we do so by calculating summary statistics.
We learn how to summarize data in panda series,
we learn how to summarize data in pandas data frames.
And then after being introduced to that, there's a video dedicated to what
are the major methods that you must always use, when you start to explore data.
This is a review video,
because I know that there's a whole lot of methods discussed, and so
we want to focus what are the critical ones you will always be using.
After that, you learn how to summarize data within categories or groups.
Essentially you can answer, does the mean change across groups?
In order to do this, we need to make sure we know how to filter data,
we need to make sure we understand how to join data,
and how to apply summary methods.
Summarizing data within groups or split apply combined is
an essential data analysis task, it's very important.
So this video is in a critical aspect of this week,
but you can only get here after you've gone through the others.
Throughout this week, you will be working with a small example data set,
which I know is not interesting.
And so after the example is used, then the realistic and
real data set titanic is used to reinforce how all
of the methods you're seeing applies to real situations.
At the end, you will calculate the survival rate of passengers
based on their passenger class, and
compare that classes when you get to split, apply combined.
Good luck this week, no new modules discussed in depth,
though there are certain modules used to help a few aspects of it,
but we are really focusing on pandas in much more detail this week.