Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/4b8PA/loading-data-from-csv-files

English
Next, let's read from CSV.
We downloaded three different CSV files.
Now, CSC stands for comma delineated, comma-separated vector,
but we call them comma-separated files.
CSV files have the extension .csv.
Unlike Excel workbooks, they contain
a single spreadsheet rather than multiple
spreadsheets, so they're easier.
We go ahead and call the function pd.read_csv().
It's set up in a very similar way where we have to give the file name.
Here, just like read Excel,
by default it assumes the top row is the header row.
By default it assumes there's no column that corresponds to the index argument.
And pd.read_csv() has nearly all
the same arguments as pd.read_excel().
So if we want to change.
The index column, we can, oops.
Oops, I read in the wrong file.
Example a, there we go.
So we can do everything that we did before, but
a few other important arguments that you may need.
We can specify the MAX NUMBER of rows to read.
So instead of reading the entire file,
we can read in a specified number of rows
such as just the first three rows.
And please note this is the first three rows after the header row.
We can also skip rows.
Pd.read_csv( 'Example_A.csv', skiprows=2).
Now when you skip rows, something that's very important by default,
again it will assume the top row is the header row.
But now by skipping rows we no longer
actually have the variable names.
So when you skip rows,
be very careful with the header.
To say that the header is none when you skip rows.
Oftentimes though you are skipping rows because for whatever reason,
the first few rows in the file metadata is written there,
like the date it was collected or who collected the data.
So you have to skip rows in order to get to the actual data and
the actual header is a few rows down.
Okay, let's just now read in the 3 csv files and
assign them to different objects.
So I'm going to name these objects dfA,
dfB, and dfC because I have example A.
Then example B and
lastly example.
C.
These are the exact same data sets as in the Excel file or the Excel workbook.
I just separated them out into three different CSV files.
So something you may have to commonly do in an application is you have multiple
files and you just have to read in those different files.