Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/DYqFC/performing-aggregation-across-groups-of-values

English
Now this is a data frame, right?
It is a full data frame,
meaning we can apply all Pandas
methods to our smaller data frame,
We can calculate the mean value oops, there we go.
The mean value associated with b.
But please look very closely at what gets displayed here.
This mean is not the same number as the mean we got
when we applied everything to the entire data set.
That's because we are now only summarizing three rows.
And those three rows are all shown here 0, 1 and 2.
They are the three rows when e is just this one category,
Our original call when we applied mean to the entire data set,
it had all here, I'll just display it so we see the whole thing.
It had all categories of e and it had therefore all values of b.
That's why the average is different,
We need to repeat the splitting process for
each unique value of the grouping variable.
And I'm just going to type these in.
There's bb again using the exact same steps,
There's cc,
There's dd,
And lastly, we also need to split
on the missing values of the grouping variable.
And I'll name this one df_E_na df_loc,
Df.E.Isna, Isna
already tells us which values are missing.
So I don't even need to use equals equals operator.
And if we check, you can see there are two rows,
those are the two rows when E is missing,
Now that we have each of the four or
each of the smaller split data sets,
we need to apply the summary method
to b within each split smaller data set,
As you can see, as I type here,
The mean value of b is changing across the categories of E.
because remember, each one of these data frames,
Has a different set of data.
It all came from the same place, but
it has been divided up into little chunks.
We are summarizing therefore
different values of b in each chunk,
When E is na, in our example here, b is also missing.
This isn't always the case, it's just the way it is for our current example.
The point being, we are applying
the method to each smaller data set,
We now have one, two, three, four,
five different summary values of b, but
we do not want to just let these values
stay as stray numbers in our notebook.
We want to collect or combine the summary
statistics per group into a new data frame.
Split apply combine breaks a data set into categories or
breaks a data set based on categories,
applies methods to summarize variables
within each smaller data set and
then combines the summary statistics per
group into a new, easy to use data frame.
That's where the terminology comes from split, apply, combine.
So let's just do this manually.
I'll name it df_E_summary,
I'll create the data frame from a dictionary
where we have the unique values of E and
then the average values of b.
Df_E and I'm just going to type this in manually.
This is not the efficient way to do this, that's okay for right now.
I just want you to see the steps.
Just repeating everything that I did earlier,
We now have, The mean
value of b for each category of E.
It looks like the average of b is now increasing.
It's changing across the categories of E,