Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/ETD1T/reading-data-into-dataframes-from-excel-files

English
Hello, everyone. In this video,
we're going to talk about reading data into Pandas.
As you can see, I already have a Jupyter Notebook opened.
Please pause the video and open up one
in the appropriate directory
on your own computers, then come back.
But I'm going to now go ahead
and launch the new Jupyter Notebook.
I'm going to name this one, week_05_read_data,
put in my headers,
read data into Pandas.
The modules that we will use,
we will use NumPy and Pandas just like last time.
Import NumPy as np.
Import Pandas is pd.
But now, before we do anything,
we need some preliminaries for this recording.
You need to download the four files
into the same directory as this Notebook.
It will take you to a spot
that is really just a data dump.
It has links to four files.
I want you to download each file.
Now, I'm just manually going to select and
cut all four files and then open them up,
go to the exact same working directory as the project.
You can see the filter_pandas_with_strings file
from the previous recording.
You can see the read_data Jupyter Notebook here.
I'm pasting all four files
into this location, into this directory.
I'm now going to go back into Jupyter.
Let's make sure the files were downloaded
and saved within the correct location.
To do that, we need to import the os module.
You all have this. It's one of the base Python modules.
It comes with Anaconda. We have it.
I now want you to run the os.listdir function.
This listdir function lists
all files and directories within our current directory.
If we want to know our current working directory,
the function is getcwd.
You can see where I'm currently located.
Within this directory,
we see the four files,
three of them end with CSV extensions,
and one of them ends with XLSX.
This recording is all about reading data from
Excel and CSV files into Panda's data frames.
We will begin by reading Excel files.
Let me open up that directory, Excel_Example_Data.xlsx.
You have to have Excel on your computer to open
up this actual file.
You don't have to do so though in order to read it.
But this is what the file looks like.
It is a spreadsheet.
This Excel workbook consists of four sheets.
I left the default sheet name for sheet 1,
and then I modified the sheet names for the other three.
But I want you to just look at this data now.
Again, there are rows and columns here,
because this is a spreadsheet.
Let me minimize it and go back to Jupyter.
To read data from Excel,
we need to use the pd.read_excel function.
Now, the reason why I wanted
us to make sure that we have these files
in the same directory as our current Notebook is
because it makes it very easy to read in the file.
In fact, by just typing
ex as a string within read_excel,
the Excel_Example_Data.xlsx file is available.
I have the data as read into Pandas
on the left and
the Excel Workbooks view of the data on the right.
Now, we didn't discuss anything yet
about how this function reads in the data,
but from just looking at the way the data are presented,
you can see we have a top header row.
This top header row
has bold names or bold face font letters.
Those are the column or variable names.
On the left hand side,
we have the bold letters, the index.
Now, in the Excel file,
we do not see the index.
We'll talk about that here in a minute.
But you can see the row,
that becomes the column names.