Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/sXI7a/row-filtering-by-value

English
You we can now filter rows.
Filtering refers to selecting rows
based on conditional tests and
last week we mostly focused on
conditional tests applied to numeric columns.
So I want to find all rows where the wins column is greater than 65.
The reason why we're working with such a small example here is that way we
can confirm that yes, there are two rows that satisfy this condition,
the cardinals and the brewers.
We can literally just see the result from visual inspection.
When we apply the mask, the result of the conditional test, we get out the two rows.
And to review from last week, if you look closely,
there's actually a lot of important details in this one line of code.
I'm using the dot notation to access the column, I'm interested in wins.
I'm applying the conditional test and using that result to identify the row.
I know it's the row because it's to the left of
the comma within the dot loc attribute.
Remember, dot loc is the very formal way that we can identify rows and
columns based on their location rather than
their index position in a data frame.
We also saw that we can apply conditional tests to strings.
For example, we use the equals equals operator
to check which row of team is exactly equal to pirates.
This doesn't surprise us that we get the one row where team is pirates.
We also saw how to use the or
operator, the vertical
bar to find all rows where
the value equals a or b.
Or the value is one of those presented,
Last week we demonstrated this and remember,
each condition needs to be applied within a parenthesis.
But we demonstrated this by asking for
finding the rows where the team is equal to cardinals or
the team is equal to the brewers.
You can see there were two rows that get returned because team is cardinals or
brewers.
This is of course very different from an and operation.
We're looking for one value or
one variable that can have one of several options.
The equal sign operator combined
with the or operator is useful,
but or is correct to use, but
it does not scale well.
For example, if we needed to check for
ten possible values, we would need to
type in ten different conditions.
So that's a whole lot of typing.
Instead, we can use the is in method
to streamline the or operator.
So instead of having to type two literal separate conditions separated by or
if you look closely, we're applying the test to the same column.
So let's just check.
Is the value of team in the following
collection or list?
Look closely at the syntax.
The variable does it have a value in this list?
We don't have to worry about the or operator.
We don't have to provide the equals operators,
we are just asking does the variable have values in this list?
And this syntax scales to
many more values is in.
So I could type cardinals, brewers,
pirates, so on and so forth.
This is much easier to read, it's much easier to think about and type.
Although I presented is in with strings,
the is in method can also be applied to numbers.
For example, maybe I want to find
all rows where the losses has values
in the collection of 70 and 90.
I just picked these two and I wanted to simply
just demonstrate that we can use is in so
70 or 90 on numeric columns.
But the is in operator is especially
useful for string filtering.
For example, maybe we want to find all values
that are in some variable like top teams.
And I'm just going to very simply define this variable
as let's first find all rows where games back is
less than ten, but focus just on the team column.
Let's copy it and then force the result to a list.
So two list is a method associated with pandas series.
You can see there are these two teams.
Now I can apply my conditional
test to team asking to find all rows
where team is in my top teams list.
I wanted to just demonstrate this to you to highlight.
We don't have to just manually type in the values we're searching for,
we can contain them in an object like a list.