Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/mmvXL/row-filtering-by-pattern-matching

English
Okay, so the is in method really important for applying the or operator.
Let's now see some more type of string pattern matching.
And to set this up, let's focus on finding
all rows where the city is identically equal to Pittsburgh.
Now obviously in our example, there's one and only one row where that is the case.
But what if I didn't feel like typing
out the whole string for Pittsburgh?
What if I just wanted to type,
I want all rows where the city is equal to pit.
Well, this isn't going to work because there is no city named Pitt.
Another way to view this is what if we had a typo?
For example, what if I forgot
that Pittsburgh ends with an h and
I kept typing it with a g?
Well, I would never find the Pittsburgh pirates instead.
Or really what I'm trying to say is here the equals operator
is literally trying to match this entire value to this variable.
So instead of trying to exactly or identically match,
what if we could instead focus on a pattern?
The str contains method searches for
a pattern within the string.
So baseball_df.city,
this is an object or string str.contains.
Now I can type in a pattern which does not have to be a complete string,
and it will search for that pattern in the string.
There's only one value where this is true, and it is Pittsburgh.
So another way to find the row where
city is equal to Pittsburgh is,
I can ask I want to find the row where city
its string contains the pattern Pitt.
We can even apply the pattern search to a single character,
so I could find all rows where the city
string contains the pattern capital P.
But be careful because if the pattern is too short,
it will not uniquely identify the string you are looking for.
For example, let's say I typed in find me all
rows where the city string contains the capital C.
We now get two rows returned.
Chicago and Cincinnati,
contains is therefore really intended for
just finding any kind of pattern or
finding all values that contain this pattern.
It's not for uniquely finding one single row,
it's for finding anything that has the pattern.
So this method, the str.contains method,
is very helpful when exploring data.
You're literally just trying to find what's there.
I particularly like to use it to search for
non letter characters.
For example, to find a period in a string,
we need to search for the pattern //..
The slash is an escape character.
Loc baseball_df we want to search for city for the string for
any row where the string contains the pattern of a period.
And I know on the screen it's hard to see, but
on your screens if you would look closely, there's a period after the t in St. Louis.
We can even search for a white space
baseball_df loc baseball city does
the string contain the pattern of and
now I type quotes and hit spacebar.
So there's an actual white space for the pattern and
the only city that contains a white space is St. Louis.
There are many more string methods available and
a quick way to find them if we grab city and type str.
And then hit tab, you can see all the different string methods that
are available and the pandas documentation is pretty good discussing them.
We'll dir to just list them out here.
Many of the pandas str methods are consistent
with the base Python string methods.
But this is all we'll cover for now,
in part because contains really is helpful for
finding rows based on some simple pattern and
the is in method is very very helpful for
finding rows equaling one or of a possible set of values.
That's all for this video.
I hope you found it useful as a review of working with data frames and
introducing some more ways of dealing with strings.