Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/ohBlo/summarizing-dataframes-handling-missing-values-and-numeric-columns

English
Hello everyone. This video is all
about summarizing pandas DataFrame.
Another important ingredient as we continue on
our journey of now learning how to explore data.
As you can see, I already have
a Jupyter session opened up for the current week.
If you don't have Jupyter's launched,
please pause the video and go ahead and do that now.
Once you have done that, I want you to
launch a new Jupyter notebook.
I'm going to go ahead and change
this one's title to Week_05_summarize_dataframe.
Set the headers like I usually do,
CMPNIF 2100 Week 05,
summarize DataFrame for
exploratory data analysis or EDA.
The previous video introduced pandas
summary methods but only on the pandas series.
We will now use those methods on DataFrames.
Let's import numpy as np and pandas as pd.
Just like the previous videos this module.
Now we will read in data.
Let's read in the joined dataset we created previously.
I'll assign it to the DF object,
the common variable name for DataFrames
read CSV joined data.
Great. We now have this dataset.
We want to know how to summarize
the variables in this dataset to help explore it,
we want to summarize columns.
We learned from the previous recording
that summarizing columns within a DataFrame
is accomplished just as
we apply methods to summarize pandas series.
Because a DataFrame is
really just a collection of a pandas series.
But there's a few things I
really want to draw your attention to.
I want to first focus on the B column.
We can see it's got numbers.
We can apply the mean method
to that column using
either of our preferred notation syntaxes.
But look closely at B.
B is not just a set of numbers,
B has some missing values.
However, when we applied mean,
we got a number.
Essentially things behaved just like if
all of the values were non-missing,
if all of the entries were non-missing.
Now I'm highlighting the F column because we
can see visually there are no missings for the F column.
We can apply our summary functions,
but how does pandas deal with missing values?
The missings are dropped or skipped or
removed before the summary function is applied.
This is something that's very important
because you might think that,
hey, I have missings,
I applied some summary function, I got some number.
You might think that there's
some really fancy thing going on behind the scenes.
But no, that's not the case.
Really what's just happening is that
the skipna argument to mean
which skipna means skip the missings
or remove the missings is set equal to true.
If we would say skipna is false,
missing values
prevent the summary statistic from being calculated.
Basically, if you have a missing,
it does not know how to calculate the summary stat.
Whereas if you do not have a missing,
it doesn't matter whether you skipna or not.
Many summary functions/methods drop
or skip missing values.
Same holds true for the STD method,
for the variance method,
for the min, for the max,
the missing values are removed.
What happens if we apply
the mean method to the entire DataFrame?
Because each of these actions you've just seen me do,
they are really the same things
from the previous recording.
I'm accessing one column and applying a method to it.
But if I now apply
the summary method to the entire DataFrame,
summary statistics for all of
the columns or really all
of the appropriate columns are provided.
What do I mean by appropriate?
Well, mean is appropriate for numbers or numeric columns.
The warning message you're seeing
displayed to the screen is saying,
hey, we're now changing the arguments.
If you want to only apply this to numeric columns,
you need to actually specify this
is only being applied to numeric columns.
Numeric only equals true
removes the warning we get out the results,
we see 5.5 for B,
as we saw previously is to just do a little check,
the meaning of the C column is negative 650.
This argument exists for the SPD method,
for the variance method,
for the minimum, for the maximum.
Basically, any summary statistic associated with numbers.
When we apply the method to the entire DataFrame,
we should say numeric only equals true.
Again, we get a result really a pant series.
The index of that series is the variable or column,
and the value is now that particular summary statistic.
The standard deviation of
the C column you can see is 360.