Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/7nBTI/summarizing-numpy-arrays-and-series

English
Hello everyone. In this video,
we're going to talk about
summarizing methods for Pandas series.
This way we will learn how to begin
to explore data with Pandas.
As you can see, I already have my Jupiter
opened up in the working directory for this week.
If you don't have this started,
please pause the recording. Do so.
Once you have,
launch a new Jupiter notebook.
I'm going to go ahead and change the name,
the week_05_summarize_series, and
then define the header information.
Begin exploring data by summarizing Pandas series.
We will explore data before training predictive models.
This process is known as
exploratory data analysis or EDA.
It is very important.
Important aspect of EDA is
knowing how to calculate summary statistics.
This notebook demonstrates how
to summarize Pandas series.
Go ahead and import modules.
As with all of the other ones,
you will import NumPy as np this week and Pandas as pd.
Now before we demonstrate how to
go about applying the summary methods for Pandas series,
let's just do a quick review of NumPy summary methods.
Let's create a list of integers
and then convert that list to a 1D NumPy array.
Name it my_list 10,
20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80.
Great. Convert to an array.
My_array gets assigned the result of
np.array applied to my_list.
In the NumPy unit,
we learned how to calculate
the sample average or the mean.
We also learned how to calculate the variance,
specifically what we had to
do to get the unbiased estimate.
We also learned how to get the standard deviation,
or really the unbiased estimate
to the standard deviation.
We can also get the minimum.
We can get the maximum.
There are even other summary stats
which we will discuss in
more detail when we start visualizing our data.
Let's now start to see how to summarize Pandas series.
Convert the list into a Pandas series.
I call it my_series pd.series apply to my_list.
Most of the Pandas series summary methods work
very similarly to their NumPy counterparts.
For example, I can apply the mean method,
I can apply the min,
I can apply the max.
There's no difference at all
in terms of the results with NumPy.
But look closely at the variance.
The variance result for the Panda series
is not the same as
the default variance result from NumPy.
The Pandas result is the
same as the unbiased estimate, ddof = 1.
Look closely at the standard deviation.
Well, the standard deviation is
just a square root of the variance.
If we apply the STD method,
you will see the result of the STD method applied
to my_array using the default method is different.
As with variance,
the Pandas series summary method for
standard deviation is the same as the unbiased estimate.
What this means is Pandas correctly
sets ddof = 1
when the variance or standard deviation are calculated.
Pandas therefore calculates the unbiased estimate
to variance and standard deviation.
When you're using Pandas,
you actually don't need to have to worry about
ddof equaling one because
Pandas already takes care of it for you.