Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/C7H0Q/addressing-box-plot-limitations-with-extreme-values-and-kde-plots

English
But now I want to address what these little dots are.
The dots are always either
above the top of
the whisker or below the bottom of the whisker.
The dots are known as outliers.
But I personally don't like
that term because when people hear outliers,
they think it's this magical mystical thing.
I instead like to call them extreme values,
every dot you see is an extreme value.
What does the extreme represent?
The extreme is trying to represent these very long tail,
low frequency values,
the intervals that don't have as many data points.
You might be thinking, well, okay,
we have all of these extremes,
this must be representative of
skew and you would be right.
But the box plot does have one fundamental limitation.
It cannot show the shape of the distribution.
It is only showing the summary stats.
It can't show shape.
Box plots can mislead you
when you have highly symmetric distributions or
highly asymmetric or highly skewed shapes
because when we see the box,
our natural instinct is to think most
of the data are going to be contained in the box,
even though in truth, it's 50 percent of the data.
This is not wrong,
50 percent of the observations are in the box.
But are the most frequent values
or are the most frequent intervals
contained in the boxes?
That's really what I'm getting at here,
because when you see the median.
If we're thinking of a Gaussian a bell curve,
the most frequent values are truly in
the center and if we see this box plot,
we might think,
hey, this is the most frequent value.
The median, the most frequent,
the most likely, the most populated values
are somewhere around here.
But we know that's actually incorrect.
We know from our histograms that
the most frequent intervals
are literally at the lower bounds.
The most probable value for
color D is not right near its conditional median.
It's actually closer to near its lower bound,
and a boxplot cannot represent that.
Extremely skewed distributions, we have
the most frequent intervals
near the lower or upper bounds.
The boxplot cannot represent that behavior
because boxplots cannot show the distribution shape.
This is the fundamental limitation.
We can see the shape with
faceted histograms or KDE plots.
But a drawback of
facets is we have to look at many subplots.
What if we used conditional KDE plots with
the categorical variable associated
with the hue argument.
Remember, in seaborn,
you can associate a variable with color via hue.
Let's now make the conditional KDE,
it's a distribution plot,
so we need the sns displot function,
data equals diamonds, x equals price
because we're still looking at
the distribution of a continuous variable.
But now instead of using the column facet argument,
we will use hue for color.
We will use kind is KDE,
we're not using a histogram we're using a KDE.
If I would just create this plot,
aspect make it wide.
If I just make the plot as it is,
and we get the overall distribution,
we can see the orange, we can see the red,
the pink, the J coloring is way down here.
But this plot is wrong.
The J KDE, remember,
we previously saw, this is the lowest sample size.
The fact that the pink curve is down at
the bottom by default
is simply just due to the sample size.
You cannot use the default argument for common norm.
Because by default common norm is true,
but we need to set
common norm to false to remove the sample size effect.