Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/uCAS4/adjusting-bounds-and-palette-and-annotating-values

English
I forgot to apply core.
There we go.
Now it makes sense.
Take a look at the scale, -1 to positive 1.
You see this blue color?
Well, we are in the negative side.
By switching our vmin and vmax and center to be a negative
around a value in the middle and then a positive for
the max, the default color scale changes.
Previously when we use the default arguments,
we had dark to light and the colors were increasing sequentially.
This is known as a sequential scale.
There's a constant change from dark to light.
But now look at our new scale in the middle it's at its darkest
going from the midpoint or the center to the positive.
We go from dark to red yellow, but
on the bottom we go from dark to kind of bright blue.
This is known as a diverging color scale because the colors
are diverging away from the center points.
Diverging is particularly important to use.
Diverging color palettes are important to use for
core plots because we want to focus
on behavior away from the midpoint of
a correlation coefficient of zero.
We want to see how far away the value is from 0, whether positive or negative.
A diverging color palette lets us distinguish
the sign positive versus negative based on color,
while still representing the magnitude
by the color intensity darkness.
Let me now copy and paste just to save time.
So I'll use all this code here and paste it.
In the default, the default
color palette is ice fire.
The palette can be changed with the cmap argument.
So to give the default its cmap equals ice fire.
It's called ice fire because it's above zero or above the center.
You have fire, you have red.
Below it you have blue, you have ice.
But there are more diverging color palettes.
I like cool warm, so let me paste this in,
but now put cmap equal to cool warm as
a string in the center you get this gray.
So the midpoint is gray, positive is red, negative is blue.
Another popular option, cmap is vlag,
which is a muted version of cool warm,
where the midpoint is a white.
Positive is red, negative is blue.
There are even more, but this is good for now.
You can annotate the correlation
plot via text to make it even easier
to display the correlation coefficient.
So if you don't like the fact that we just have this color palette now and
you really want to know what is the exact number,
use the annotated text to show the exact correlation coefficient.
So let me just copy and paste again to save time.
Cmap equals cool warm annotate
equals to true annotate keywords.
We can control the size of a font through a dictionary.
So you annotate your heat map, whether it's a correlation plot or a combination
count heat map the same way because it's still the same heat map function.
Annotate true.
Annotate keywords to control the font size.
Now, you can see that this blue number, this blue tile,
corresponds to the negative correlation coefficient of -0.58.
This correlation matrix, this correlation plot is for two specific variables.
This is for showing two specific variables correlation coefficients.
We can, of course, change to two others.
Annotate true, annotate keyword size 25.
So instead of using flipper length, we could use body mass, g and bill length.