Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/EKgTa/assessing-box-plot-effectiveness-using-faceted-histograms-for-symmetry

English
But okay, let's now dive a little deeper.
What is the box plot best suited for?
A box plot is at its best when the conditional distributions,
so the distribution of the continuous for
a given categorical value are roughly symmetric.
That's really when the box plot has most of its assumptions satisfied,
it really likes symmetric distributions.
And even better is if the distributions are gaussian, but
the main one is that they are symmetric.
That means we should always check.
We must check the shape of the conditional distributions.
One way to do that is with faceted histograms,
we will use the facets to represent the categorical variable.
So in our box plot,
let's go back to when we're studying the distribution given year.
Let's return to the conditional distribution
of life expectancy given year to create this figure,
it's a distribution plot.
The seaborne figure level function is
sns.displot(), d-i-s-p-l-o-t,
displot, not distplot, so displot.
All plots start with data, so data = gap_df.
We are focused on the continuous variable life expectancy, so
that gets associated with the x axis.
But now I want to use the facets, the column facets for year.
Each facet or subplot now corresponds to
a different column in this faceted figure.
Now, there are so many facets here, it's a little difficult to see,
and I can't really read what is the year per subplot.
So I will wrap the facets, the col_wrap
argument allows us to stop the columns and
then wrap the next set of columns down another row.
So it looks like we're going to create a grid of subplots,
but we're really just taking all of our columns and wrapping them down rows.
Col_wrap=4) means I will use 4 columns per row before wrapping.
This is a quick way to zoom in to make the overall figure bigger and easier to see.
Now we can see 1952, 1957, 1962, so on and so forth.
The first takeaway that you should have from each of these
histograms is that the distributions are not bell curves,
they are not gaussian, they do not look like the normal distribution.
But we are mainly looking for if the distributions,
the conditionals are roughly symmetric.
So if you could draw a line in the middle, or
really if you could draw a line at their median point,
does the left side look like the right?
And now some of these you could see in this top row, they are not symmetric.
As we get into the middle rows, a few of them are, and
then the symmetry goes away.
1992, this one definitely does not look symmetric.
The left hand side looks very different
from the right hand side, but nothing is extreme,
none of the facets show extreme lack of symmetry.
Now, a lack of symmetry is referred to as skew.
So anytime you hear skew, think not symmetric.
What does EXTREME SKEW look like,
and what are the consequences of EXTREME SKEW?
Well, let's load in a data set that has extreme skew.