Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/HCRoP/box-plot-under-extreme-distributions

English
Let's now examine the conditional distribution
of price given the categorical variable color.
We will visualize the categories via facets.
So we will use facets to show each unique value of color.
So now the col,
oops, forgot the plt.show.
The col argument,
the column argument is color.
Each unique category of color is shown as the title.
But one of the things that's challenging now is
that it's difficult to see what's
going on in certain facets.
Why is that? Let's go back up to our bar chart.
Even though our category with
the smallest sample size is
still in the several thousand observations,
it has far fewer samples than
the categories with the highest overall count.
Color equals G has over 10,000 data
points or five times the number of the J category.
The y-axis is dominated
by the groups or categories with the highest sample size.
By default, all facets share the x and y-axis bounds.
Sometimes we need to modify
the bounds to allow them to be not shared or free.
Let's change the y-axis bounds to be
free in the conditional distribution figure.
Sns.displot, it starts the same way, diamonds,
x equals price,
col column is color,
bins equals 25, kde equals true.
But let's now go to a new line.
To modify the facet scales
we need to use the facet underscore kws argument.
So let me type that again,
facet and FA tab.
You should get the tab complete,
facet_kws, this stands for keywords.
Now we need a dictionary,
where the key such as
share y is the attribute of the plot,
and the value is the value we want for that argument.
I want to share y to be false.
Now, each of the y-axis scales are different.
They have different bounds.
We're effectively zooming in on each of the categories.
We can now see that each of
the categories have this asymmetric
or highly skewed distribution
where most of the observations are on the left hand side,
and there's this long tail to
the right of low frequency values.
They all have this. What is
the consequence of the skew
or long tail behavior on the boxplot?
Let's create it.
Sns now catplot data equals diamonds,
x for a boxplot is not
the continuous variable typically, it's the categorical.
So when we're using faceted histograms,
the categorical is the column argument.
But now for the boxplot,
it is the x axis.
So color, y is the continuous,
kind equals box,
aspect equals two to make it wider.
Now, we get these boxes.
We can see the median.
We can see the level of variation with the box.
The boxes, well, some of them are different in height.
The box length is different for J and I.
But as a rough statement,
the level of variation is relatively similar.
It's not consistent,
we don't have any drastic changes,
but we can see that the median is seeming to
be different across the categories.