Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/cYwLX/clearer-distribution-shapes-with-violin-plots

English
Now, when we see that the pink curve, the pink KDE, or
the j category is lower on the y axis,
this now actually means that j is
less dense or less concentrated.
It's more spread out than the other categories.
So like the E and the D categories, they have higher density,
they have higher concentration.
This plot now is correct, but
conditional KDE plots can be very busy
to look at when we have more than four categories.
There's just too many colors here and they're all kind of jumbling together.
It's difficult to pull out a lot of useful information unless
we are very comfortable looking at KDEs.
Instead, I would like to show all
of these conditional KDEs side by side.
I would like to use a format like the box plot,
where I get the distribution per category
side by side on one plot, one figure, one axis,
rather than a whole bunch of lines on top of each other,
or rather than across a whole bunch of subplots.
That's what the violin plot is doing.
The violin plot shows conditional
KDE plots side by side within a single
axis rather than across multiple subplots.
The syntax for the violin plot is just like the box plot.
It's fundamentally a categorical to continuous relationship,
so we need catplot.
It starts with a data set, so data = diamonds.
The x axis will be the categorical variable.
The y axis will be the continuous variable.
So again, this looks just like the point plot and the in the box plot syntax or
syntax, but instead of kind equals box, it's now kind equals violin.
And then let's make it wide aspect equal to two.
You don't see just the rectangular boxes now,
do you see these kind of goofy looking curves, these shapes?
You're getting a mirrored reflection of the conditional KDE.
So on the left of the middle is the KDE, on the right of the middle
is the exact same KDE, but reflected for one category.
The violin is called a violin plot because it kind of looks like a violin instrument.
If you put this and you pulled some strings down,
you could play a bo across it and it kind of looks like a violin.
Again, this chart is showing you what we saw up here.
Here, let's make it even more explicit.
I'm going to just copy this code and come down and paste it.
But now, instead of saying KDE equals true, I'll just say kind equals KDE.
Oops, displot, price, color, no bins.
There we go.