Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/tH7PK/correlation-plot-of-all-variables

English
Cmap=coolwarm. Why is it so critical that
we always use -1 to +1 with 0 in the center?
Well, let's comment out what we heard.
Now, if we use the default color scale,
we still get that dark black color here
because the main diagonal is always
a correlation coefficient of 1.
If we did not annotate it,
we might be fooled into thinking, hey,
this is a low correlation
coefficient just because it's dark black.
But if we examine the color scale in more detail,
we would see, this is still positive.
It's not right next to zero.
But the average person is not going to
spend a whole lot of time
double-checking your color scales.
You need to make sure that
your correlation plots are constructed such that
a person can consistently look across
different correlation plots and
still reach the same conclusions quickly and easily.
By scanning across these two,
I know which has a negative correlation versus
which has all only positive correlation.
But correlation plots are particularly
great for showing the relationship
between more than just two continuous variables.
We'll touch on this in
another video, but just to show it,
we can show the correlation coefficient between
all pairs of continuous variables in one chart.
Just copy here.
I won't even copy and paste this just so we
can see it, penguins.corr.
If we call the method as it is,
you can see we get a warning.
It gives us out the correlation matrix,
only for the numeric variables,
so just to be safe,
let's set numeric only equal to true,
to remove the warning.
We now have the correlation
coefficient between each pair of variables.
Bill depth and bill length,
body mass, and bill length.
Here's what we just looked at before.
Here's flipper length.
Now, here it is flipper length and bill depth.
But you can see there's
even the pairs we did not look at;
bill depth and bill length,
flipper length, and bill length.
Body mass, and flipper length.
We can show all of those pairs within a heat map.
Numeric only true,
vmin-1, vmax 1, center=0, cmap=coolwarm,
annotate true, ax=ax, plt.show.
Here, let's raise the font size.
Since we have the annotated correlation plot,
let's even remove the color bar.
So Cbar false to give us even more space.
This correlation plot is
showing us the linear relationship
summarized by one number for
every single pair of variables.
Even though in our scatter plots,
we were only able to look at
just two continuous variables at a time,
the correlation plot can
scale to many pairs of variables.
This is part of the reason why
this is such a powerful graph.
It really lets us examine
a huge number of variables all at once.
But that's not the only thing we can do.
We also need to consider grouping.
Remember, we saw that grouping by a categorical changed
our opinion about the relationship
between two of the continuous variables.
Let's make the trend sns.lmplot penguins.
We'll focus here back on
the flipper length millimeter and
the bill depth millimeters.
Remember how we had that negative relationship?
But if we grouped by species,
and represented that grouping as the hue,
we now had three positively sloped lines.