Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/AfTDx/datasets-with-extreme-distributions

English
This dataset is called diamonds,
so we will assign it to the object diamonds.
We can load in the dataset from
sns.load_dataset where the argument is diamonds.
This is the same way that we got the penguins dataset,
but now we're working with diamonds.
You can see there are 10 columns.
Here, we use the.info
method to get a quick little glimpse.
But we can instead also look at the columns attribute.
We can look at the dtypes attribute.
We can get the summary of the dtypes from value counts.
We can check the number of missings.
We can check the number of uniques.
As I mentioned, over these last few weeks,
these are the essential actions you must
always perform when you begin exploring data.
We can see which ones are numerics, floats or integers.
But then we see a few that are labeled as categories.
The category data type is
a special data type for
categorical variables within Pandas.
Let's look at one of those categories, the color.
An essential task for any non numeric is to count.
Here I'm using value counts.
And if I wanted to, I could even
make value counts show the proportions.
But instead of looking at the numbers,
let's create a bar chart.
The bar chart starts with the data.
The x-axis variable is what we want to count,
and the kind of chart is a count part,
and then set the aspect a
little wider to make the figure wider.
All of these categories have
a very large number of observations.
The category with the lowest count color
J has 2000 observations.
We have a very large sample size here,
even across all the categories.
Let's now examine a marginal distribution,
so a distribution of a variable by itself,
ignoring everything else of
the continuous variable price.
I'm looking at a distribution,
so I need the figure level function displot,
D-I-S-P-L-O-T, data equals diamonds x equals price.
Here, I'll set the number of bins to be
25 and then aspect of two to make the figure wider.
This is a highly skewed distribution.
It's clearly not symmetric.
The most frequent interval
is all along the left hand side,
pushed up near its lower bounds.
There's no bins to the right of the most frequent bin.
The skewness is represented by
this asymmetry or this very long tail.
If we would cut
from the left hand to the right hand side,
the distribution on the right side is
clearly very different from that on the left.
The y-axis is the count per bin.
In this one interval,
there are nearly 16,000 observations.
But on the far right hand side, the last interval,
which has price values greater than $17,500,
the counts are so low,
I can't even really read them off the chart.
It's hard. I just know it's less than 1,000 and wage
are less than 500 based on the height of that bin.
We can also include the KDE on top of
the histogram to get
a smoother picture of the distribution.
Sns displot data equals diamonds, x equals price,
bins equals 25,
kde equals true aspect=2 plt show.
The kde is shown by the blue curve.
Whether we use our bins in our histogram or the kde,
we get this very asymmetric distribution where
the most frequent intervals
are on the far left hand side.
The top of the curve is
not in the middle of the distribution.