Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/1jII5/exploring-continuous-relationships-with-scatter-plots

English
Hello everyone, in this video we're going to talk about scatter plots.
As you can see, I already have Jupyter opened up in the directory for
this week in the class.
If you don't have Jupyter open, please pause the recording and launch it.
And once you have done that, we will then create a new Jupyter notebook.
Let's change this file name to
week_07_scatter_plots and
then put in the headers CMPINF 2100 week 07,
visualizing continuous to continuous
relationships scatter plots.
Let's import modules, I want you to import in
the big four import numpy as NP, import pandas as pd,
importmatplotlib.pyplot is plt and import seaborn as sns.
Okay, let's now read in the data.
We will use the penguins data set for this example,
to get penguins, we will call the sns load
dataset function with the argument penguins.
So penguins as a string as the argument to load
dataset is assigned to the penguins variable.
If we apply the dot info method,
we can see it has seven columns, we have worked with a few of
these columns previously when we were considering counts.
So looking at bar charts, making visuals for marginal histograms so
distributions, and then looking at conditional distributions,
conditional kdes by grouping a continuous variable by a categorical variable.
So we will not begin with the essential information since we have already done
that, we will not look at counts or bar charts or marginal distributions.
We will not look at conditional distributions, so box plots,
violin plots, point plots.
Instead, we are going to exclusively focus on
continuous to continuous relationships.
The fundamental plot for showing the relationship
between two continuous variables is the scatter plot,
and this is typically how charts or visualization is introduced.
You make a simple scatter plot, but I like to introduce visualization
with how I feel you should visualize the data when you explore.
By beginning with marginal distributions, asking what are the counts of
categoricals, then the distributions of continuous variables.
Looking at combinations of categoricals, then conditional distributions,
and then you look at the continuous to continuous relationships.
In seaborn, the figure level function for
showing relationships is the sns rel plot function.
Remember, figure level functions,
the naming convention is what is the goal,
the goal here is to study a relationship.
The x axis is associated with a continuous variable and
the y axis is associated with a second continuous variable.
In our example, using the penguins data set,
let's use the flipper length and
the bill depth as our two continuous variables.
To make the figure,
sns rel plot data equals penguins.
All charts, all figures, start with data, data equals penguins.
And then the x axis will be flipper length millimeters,
the y axis will be bill depth millimeters,
plt show, we have one on the x, one on the y.
Every single dot or marker that
you see is a single observation or
row in our data set.
So this dot right here, it is an observation or
row in our data set that has a flipper length of
about 205 and a build depth of roughly 14 and
a half, that's this one data point.
You can see that there are regions that have multiple data points,
multiple observations with very similar values.
And then there are a few that are kind of away from the main body or
clustering of the observations.