Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/bxrsE/exploring-continuous-relationships-with-trend-plots

English
The overall syntax though is
consistent to what we saw with relplot.
We have the function lmplot,
all figures start with data,
the data are penguins.
We'll use the same x-axis variable, flipper_length_mm,
the same y-axis variable, bill_depth_mm, plt.show().
The markers are the same thing
that we discussed last time.
Each marker is a separate data point,
a separate row,
in the data frame.
But now, there is a blue line and
a ribbon that help us
understand the relationship between
these two continuous variables.
Do you see how this line is diagonal?
It starts higher on the left,
and then as the x-axis variable increases,
the line is decreasing,
meaning bill depth is decreasing,
it's going down as flipper length is increasing.
We are viewing an ante
or negative relationship between the two variables.
Essentially, the slope is negative of this best fit line.
But what happens if we
group or condition on a categorical variable?
Let's color via the hue argument by species.
When we did not color, again,
we can see that the relationship
between the two variables,
bill depth decreases as flipper length increases.
But now we will use the same kind of
syntax of sns.lmplot(data='penguins',
x='flipper_length_mm', y='bill_depth_mm'),
but now adding hue='species'.
We no longer see one line.
We see three separate lines,
and those three separate lines are
colored consistently with the markers.
When we isolate one species,
for example, gentoo,
now the slope of the line is different.
It starts on the low side,
and then as flipper length increases,
bill depth also increases.
Given or grouping by or conditioning on,
so I'm using three different terms
that all mean the same thing,
given or grouping by or conditioning on the species,
changes our opinion about
the relationship between the two continuous variables.
Grouping by species reveals
a positive relationship between the two.
In the context of this problem,
if the flipper length is increasing,
you can say it's a bigger penguin.
If the bill depth is increasing,
you could say it's a bigger penguin.
So if you get bigger penguins,
you would expect that the features, the attributes,
the characteristics of the penguins
should just be bigger,
bigger beaks, bigger heads, longer flippers.
It makes sense that
those two variables should be positively related.
When we ignored, however,
the grouping of the species,
we instead got negative relationships
between these because fundamentally,
these three species of penguins are different species,
they are different sizes,
and so just putting everything all together
masked the real natural relationship
between these two variables.
Again, grouping can
change our opinion about the relationship.
Also, I should point out,
we can, of course,
create the trend plot
between two different continuous variables.