Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/V5HA8/heatmap-of-correlation-values

English
Correlation is representing linear relationships.
Even though you will often hear
the term correlation just thrown out and used.
It really is specific for linear relationships.
But hopefully, you've learned up to this point,
I don't like looking at numbers in tables.
I instead prefer to visualize things.
Let's visualize the correlation matrix as a heat map.
This heat map is given a special name,
it's called the correlation plot or corrplot for short.
The corrplot is a heat map that will
represent the correlation coefficient
between the variables as color.
We need to use the
sns.heatmap function to make the correlation plot.
sns.heatmap function is an axis-level function.
We used this function to make our heat maps to
show the combination counts
between two categorical variables.
We are now going to use the exact same function,
but we're not showing counts because these values in
the cells of our matrix or really our data frame,
our table, if you will,
are correlation coefficients rather than counts.
It's what the quantities are that dictate the context.
As a figure-level function,
we need to initialize the figure and axis-level objects.
I'll just use the default fig size for now.
The function calls sns.heatmap.
There is a dataset we need to provide,
and then ax=ax,
because we're going to assign that
this plot is made within this axis,
and then we will plt.show.
But now, what dataset do we need to give?
All figures start with data,
but our dataset is no longer the penguins data frame.
Instead, we need to give it the correlation data frame.
Let's continue to focus on just two variables.
Again, select all rows,
but just these two specific columns, and apply corr.
Instead of seeing the numbers displayed, now,
the color is representing the number.
The intersection is still
showing us the same kind of thing though,
bill depth intersects flipper length.
We have a dark color,
because we know that
the correlation coefficient is negative.
In this chart, the dark color is a negative value.
But you should never use
the default bounds on the color scale.
By default, the bounds will simply
be representative of the values
inside the correlation matrix.
You might say, well, what's wrong with that?
Well, correlation coefficient is
between negative one and positive one always.
That is how it is defined.
You must always define the bounds on
the color scale to be between negative
one and positive one when visualizing corr plots.
You must do this.
Just why will make more sense in a few minutes,
but let's just do it for now.
The bounds are controlled by
the vmin and vmax arguments to sns.heatmap,
and you should set the center argument,
which controls the midpoint value between
the lower and
upper vmax color bounds.
Let's just show it.
Let's do this again, sns.subplots,
sns.heatmap.
We will plt.show.
Again, there's some data that we need to use,
ax=ax But now, vmin=-1, vmax=1, center=0.
Now fill in the data penguins.loc,
all rows, but
select 'flipper_length_mm', 'bill_depth_mm'.