Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/ZXw3O/including-categorical-variables-using-color

English
But we have categorical variables,
object data types in the penguins data set.
Let's just do the dot info again.
For example, we have species.
What if we group by a categorical variable?
In other words, we can study
if the relationship between
the two variables changes across categories.
When we bring in a categorical variable,
we are actually able to consider
if the relationship is changing.
One way to bring in the categorical is through color.
Let's assign the species
variable to the hue argument in sns.relplot,
so sns.relplot, data equals penguins,
x equals flipper_length_mm,
y equals bill_depth_mm But now, hue equals species.
Do you see the green dots?
The color of the markers are now telling
us one category of this variable.
The context is every green dot is the Gen 2 species.
Well, look closely at this scatter plot.
We now basically have a dividing line between
Gen 2 and the other two species.
When you have a Gen 2 species,
now, yes,
when flipper length increases, bill depth increases.
Likewise, when you have one of the
other two that blue and the orange,
the Y axis increases as the X axis increases.
Meaning, conditioning or
grouping by a categorical variable,
and change our opinion
on the relationship between two continuous variables.
This is a very important concept.
We could have one interpretation about
a relationship but when
we are given a new piece of information,
that relationship can change.
Instead of coloring by the categorical variable,
we can also use facets to literally separate the groups,
so now instead of using hue,
I'll use the column facet,
so penguins x equals flipper_length_mm,
bill_depth_mm, but now, col equals species.
We only have the same blue color,
but because we have separate facets or subplots,
the different species are,
in fact, completely separated.
You can combine hue with the column
facets to get facets and colors,
so you can get both.
The coloring in this case would be redundant.
In truth, it's not completely necessary,
but it can help make the visuals even easier to
use the hue and
the facets to distinguish the categorical variable,
so you can do this as extra highlighting.
However, if you do
not color by the same variable as the facet,
that means you can use separate or you can use
different categorical variables for color and facet.
Meaning, you can group the relationship on
two separate and distinct categorical variables.
You are grouping by
the combination of two categorical variables.
For example, I would like to know
the combination of species
and island on the relationship,
sns.relplot, data equals penguins,
x equals flipper_length_mm, y equals bill_depth_mm.
Hue used for species,
but now the column facet island,
Each facet is a separate island.
Each color is a separate species.
This chart now tells us
the Adelie species shown in
blue appears in all three islands,
but the Gen 2 species is only on
the Biscoe Island while
the chinstrap species is only on the Dream Island.
We have two groupings
to help us study the relationship
between two continuous variables.
Meaning, we have a total of
four variables displayed within this one graphic.