Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/vcCns/including-categorical-variables-using-facets

English
We can add yet another categorical variable
through ROW facets.
If we look at the dot info method,
you can see, there's a third categorical variable,
the sex, which is the sex of the penguin.
Let's use now species and
island for the row and column facets.
Then we'll use sex for the color.
If we use ROW and COL facets and
associate hue with a categorical variable,
we are effectively grouping the relationship between
two continuous variables on
the combination of three categorical variables.
Sns.relplot data equals penguins, x equals, flipper,
length millimeters, y equals bill depth millimeters.
I'll go to a new line,
hue equals sex column equals island,
row equals species, and plt.show.
The color is now
denoting the categories of this one variable.
Males are blue, females are an orange.
Look at the facet title, species and island.
Island is changing horizontally.
Across the column facets,
whereas species is changing
vertically across the row facets.
We have created a grid of subplots.
There is no data here, why?
Because there are no chin strap species
on the island Torgersen,
that's exactly what we saw up here.
We get a blank facet because there are no observations.
Remember, each dot is an observation so
if a facet has zero markers or dots,
there are no observations
for this particular combination.
This also highlights why looking at
combinations is so important and critical.
We can make that combination.
Remember to always check the combinations between
categorical before looking at
the relationships between continuous variables.
Essentially, you need to study your sample sizes.
Sns.catplot data equals penguins,
x equals species, hue equals island.
Actually, we'll do it the other way, x equals island,
hue equals species, kind equals count, plt.show.
This is a dodged bar chart.
Alternatively, we could use
a heat map to show the counts.
Torgersen, the island only has
one bar because only Adelie is there.
The orange chinstrap is only
shown for dream because that's
the only island where that species lives.
Same thing for why there's only one green bar.
Again, before you study how relationships
between continuous variables can
change across combinations of categoricals,
you need to examine the sample size.
Now, what we have learned by
dividing into these different categoricals
is that fundamentally bill
depth increases as flipper length increases.
We couldn't see that previously in
our very first chart because we weren't
conditioning or grouping by any of
the categoricals and without doing that grouping,
we were actually masking
the fundamental relationship of interest.
In review, scatter plots
study continuous to continuous relationships.
But we are able to include additional variables through
color via the hue argument through column facets.
We can have column facets and
color through hue and we could even have column,
row facets, and
hue to have up to three categorical variables.
But when you do that, you must always consider the sample
sizes before looking at the relationships.
Hope you like this video,
hope it illustrates just how
powerful the scatter plot is,
even though it sounds so
simple and why simple bar charts are
such an effective tool to help you understand
the context of any of your scatter plot figures.