Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/FnVOp/introduction-to-exploring-all-continuous-variables-at-once

English
Hello, everyone. As you can see,
I already have Jupyter up.
I'm in this week's directory for the class.
If you don't have Jupyter running,
please pause the recording and do so,
and when you come back, we will
launch a new Jupyter Notebook.
Once you've done that, and you have
your Jupyter Notebook open,
let's go ahead and change
the file name to week_07_logformat.
Here I'll zoom in a
little bit and now put in the headers.
CMPINF 2100 Week 07,
reshaping from WIDE to LONG via melt.
We have seen how to explore our data,
focusing on the relationships
between continuous variables this week,
but we have also continued to see how
important it is to
group by or condition on categorical variables.
We specifically saw how grouping by
categorical variables allows us to
examine how relationships change across the groups.
There is an important data manipulation task that will
further help us use
grouping to visually explore our data,
and that's what this recording is all about.
Let's go ahead and import our modules:
import numpy as np,
import pandas as pd,
import matplotlib.py as plt,
and import seaborn as sns,
so we need the big four.
Let's go ahead and read in the data.
We will continue to work with the penguins dataset,
which we load in from seaborn load dataset penguins.
Check the info to make sure we have everything here.
Let's motivate why we need this operation,
and then we will discuss what that operation is.
We know how to look at
a marginal distribution for a single variable.
For example, we could call
the displot figure level function on
penguins for the flipper_length millimeters
variable, creating a histogram.
We could specify however many bins that we want.
But to visualize every continuous variable's histogram,
we need to call a lot of functions.
We need to iterate over all the continuous columns.
This is where you might think we can use a for loop,
but you would be wrong.
I know that online,
you will see for loops and matplot loops,
subplots, and axes all over the place. Don't do it.
You're actually hurting your data exploration.
You are leading yourself down the wrong path,
focusing on the wrong things.
Instead, we want to use a simple line of
code to show
all continuous variable marginal
distributions in one figure.
Now, Pandas actually gives us this capability.
Pandas allows this to happen.
If I call the hist method on the penguins data frame,
we actually get a separate facet
or subplot for each continuous variable.
All of the non-numeric variables have been dropped,
but what if I don't want to use Pandas?
What if I want to use Seaborn?
What happens if we use the same style of
syntax or Seaborn as we did with Pandas?
Let's just see what happens.
sns.displot.
That was the function.
If we follow the same strategy,
all we're going to do is to provide the whole dataset.
We'll specify that we want to make a histogram and hey,
let's control the fact that I want to make
the figure a little wider.
We get all four variables.
However, I don't really see all four variables.
I can really only see
the red histogram associated with body mass.
The other variables really looks like just one bar,
and I don't even see the orange one,
but there's one bar at the height equal
to the number of rows.