Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/Xjkh1/introducing-pairs-plots

English
Hello, everyone. As you can see,
I have Jupyter opened up to
the week of this course's directory.
If you don't have Jupyter started,
please pause the recording and
get it going, and once you're back,
we will then launch a new Jupyter Notebook,
a new Python 3 kernel.
Now, let's change this file name to week_07_pairsplots.
Put in the headers,
I'll create 2100 Week 07,
visualizing relationships between
continuous variables via PAIRS PLOTS.
The previous recordings focused
mostly on just 2 continuous variables.
However, we saw that CORRELATION
PLOTS scale to MANY pairs of continuous variables.
Well, the pairs plot is a way to visualize
the relationships between
multiple variables in one figure.
In many ways, the pairs plot is
a single plot that does almost everything you need.
I say almost and I really mean it,
and you'll see why here.
Let's go ahead and import our modules.
We need the big four,
import numpy as np,
import pandas as pd,
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt,
and import seaborn as sns and run that so.
Let's read in the data.
We will continue to work with
the penguins dataset, sns.load_dataset('penguins').
Let's use the.info method to
confirm we have the data available.
As a little review, we know that
the scatter plot visualizes the relationship
between 2 continuous variables
, sns.relplot(data = penguins).
We need to specify which variables on the x,
such as the flipper_length_millimeters,
which variable is on the y,
such as the bill_depth_millimeters,
and we can show that plot.
We also discussed how we are, of course,
free to change to different variables,
such as the body_mass and the bill_length.
But if we go back into penguins,
remember, we have four continuous variables.
We have looked at
the scatter plot relationship
between two pairs of variables.
But there are more pairs to work with.
We still have not looked at
all pairs of continuous variables.
This might seem like
a very tedious task to
make the scatter plot between all pairs.
But don't worry,
that's where the pairs plot will save you.
The pairs plot is a shortcut.
It will create all pairs of scatter plots for you.
The function is the sns.pairplot function.
It is a figure level function
because it generates many facets.
Let's see how this works, sns.pairplot(data = penguins).
Remember, all graphics, all plots,
all figures start with the data,
so sns.pairplot(data = penguins).
When you run it, it may take a little bit.
But you can see there
a whole lot of stuff that gets displayed.
There are really three areas in this chart.
We have some diagonal,
we have plots above the diagonal,
and we have plots below the diagonal.
Let me reduce the zoom just so it's a
little easier to see everything. There we go.
I've zoomed out, so it's harder to see the text,
but now you can see the whole graphic easier.
Let's focus on what's happening below the main diagonal.
We have one variable on
the y and we have another variable on the x.
The intersection between them is
the scatter plot between those two specific variables.
It's the exact same thing
for the plots above the main diagonal.
Here's bill depth on the y,
here's flipper length on the x.
This is the one scatter plot that we have
looked at the most for this dataset.
If you weren't sure if we should have
put flipper length on the x,
well, pairs plots are symmetric.
If you look at the symmetric point below the diagonal,
now here's flipper length on
the y and bill depth on the x.
Not only do we get each pair of scatter plots,
you get the mirrored reflection of each pair.
If you weren't sure if you should be looking
at which variable on the x versus the y,
well, the pairs plot's going to tell you that.
The main diagonal is the marginal histogram,
the marginal distribution for each variable.
Here's body mass, flipper length,
bill depth, bill length.
Let's confirm that this is indeed the case.
Confirm just one of the marginal histograms,
sns.displot(data = penguins, x equals,
how about body_mass_g,
kind = 'hist',
bins = 1, 2,
3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, 9,
10, 11, bins = 11), plt.show ().
There we go. We get the histogram for body mass
g. If we instead did flipper_length_millimeters,
you can see we get the flipper length here.
1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
10, there's only 10 bins in that one,
so let's switch it to 10.
There we go. Now we get the exact same histogram.