Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/rTio8/key-material-for-module-7

English
Hello, everyone. Welcome to
the seventh week of the semester.
This week, we will continue working on visualizing data.
We will begin by
reviewing several important plot types
from the previous week.
We will start by focusing on the point plot.
This is to really discuss what is a confidence interval,
and how does it relate to what we did with
our simulations in the first three,
four weeks of the semester?
Because the point plot is actually everything
from the first few weeks
but just done in really a few lines of code.
After that, then we want to address,
what are the limitations of the box plot?
This allows us to then introduce the violin plot.
Another way of visualizing conditional distributions.
From there, we then move on to
exploring relationships between continuous variables.
You will start with the foundational plot
in most visualization topics, the scatter plot.
You will see how to work with it
ungrouped and then consider grouping by
categorical variables through color and facets.
Then we will expand on the scatter plot through trends,
adding in trend lines to help clarify
visually relationships ungrouped as
well as grouped by categoricals via color,
and again, with facets.
We conclude this portion by
then introducing the correlation plot,
which summarizes a linear relationship
with a single correlation coefficient.
We learn how to make it ungrouped and demonstrate
how the correlation plot allows us
to scale to many variables,
and we see how to work with the grouped correlation plot,
where we use facets to consider how
a categorical variable may change
the relationships between our continuous variables.
We wrap up this week by then demonstrating how
if we reshape our data frames from wide to long format,
we can actually accelerate visualizing all of
our marginal and conditional distributions
that we reviewed at the beginning of the week.
You're going to learn how to focus on minute details,
and you will learn how to accelerate
everything through special plots,
which build on the scatter, the pairs plot.
How this correlation plot can
streamline everything and how
a data manipulation task of reshaping will
accelerate all of our conditional distribution plots.
Good luck. Please let me know if
you have any questions. Take care.