Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/yhoQ3/multiple-categorical-conditions-and-customizing-confidence-intervals

English
Not connecting the dots now really makes sense since Asia,
Europe, Africa, America, Oceania, these are literally categories,
there is no sequential behavior between them.
But what we're looking at here is the average of life expectancy per category.
Again, one of the major reasons why we would do this is we want to
know is there a difference in the average across the categories.
But we could also group by two categorical variables.
One, or the primary categorical variable is associated with the x axis.
While the secondary categorical variable
is associated with the marker hue or color.
The hue is the argument for seaborn to
show a categorical variable by color.
Sns_capplot data=gap_df, x.
We will stick with year as the primary categorical variable.
The continuous variable is still the same life expectancy,
but now hue is associated with the continent.
Then kind equals point.
We'll use the same aspect ratio and join equals false.
Now we don't see just one set of colored markers.
We see 12345.
We see as many colors as categories of the categorical variable.
The orange dots are all markers associated with Europe.
The point plot is still showing us the conditional mean or
conditional average given a category on the x axis.
But now the color also is telling us something about a secondary variable.
Therefore, the orange dot is not only the average in 1952,
it's the average in 1952 and Europe,
just like how the purple dot here is
the average in 1952 and Oceania.
By using an x axis variable and hue,
we are examining what's going on due to the combination or
interaction of two categorical variables.
This now shows us that in a given year, on average,
we have different values for the life expectancy across the continents.
It also shows us that for a given continent,
the life expectancy is on average increasing over time.
So look at the blue for Asia, for example.
Up to this point I've been focusing on the dots, the averages.
But what is the vertical line?
Because each one of these plots, whether we're grouping
by a single categorical or by two categorical variables,
have a marker, a dot or a point, and a vertical line.
Well, the vertical line is an error bar.
The error bar is showing us, by default,
the 95% confidence interval on the average.
Confidence interval is sometimes denoted as CI.
Let's examine what the actual argument is that is controlling
the confidence interval and how is it, how it is shown.
Let's go back to the life expectancy given year.
So we'll only show one grouping using the same arguments,
but now the error bar is an argument.
What we're going to show on the error bar is provided by a tuple.
The zero argument is where we put CI for confidence interval,
and then the one position to the tuple is how wide
that error bar or confidence interval needs to be.
By default, we are showing the 95% confidence interval.
This is the code that's being used whenever you just ignore or
not include the error bar argument, or this is the default value.
The 95 is a number that we can change.
We can change the confidence interval size.
For example, we can show the 68% confidence interval,
sns_catplot data=gap df,
x=year, y=life expectancy.
Kind=point, aspect=2,
joinfalse, errorbar, again,
CI but now 68 instead of 95.
The error bars are now shorter compared to what we had previously.
Because we're only showing the 68% confidence
interval instead of the 95% confidence interval.