Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/o9g8w/removing-the-sample-size-effect

English
Now, we are removing the sample size effect.
And so if the peak of the KDE is actually lower,
that would represent the distribution is spread out more.
Or another way I like to view it,
the conditional KDE should give you
the same conclusion as the violin plot,
sns.catplot(data = penguins).
x = species, y = flipper_length_mm,
kind = kde, or sorry, kind = violin.
And let's do the inner is the quartile.
When you have the violin plot, you're not actually interested
in necessarily the maximum global height, everything is relative.
It's the relative height of the peak compared to the minimum per group.
The violin has no influence of sample size.
We want to have the same conclusion for
our conditional KDE as we do with the violins.
What this means is you must remove the sample
size effect with the pairs plot just
as you did with the conditional KDE.
The one caveat is, when you do this,
you cannot just say common_norm= False.
It doesn't know how to use common norm for pairs plot.
Instead, there's an argument diag_keywords, diag_kws.
Now, we can provide any of the keywords to the conditional KDE as a dictionary.
The key is the argument common_norm, the value False.
We have now correctly removed the sample size effect,
we can better interpret the conditional
distribution of each variable given the species.
So now, when you see this green conditional density,
it is really reflecting that that group corresponds
to this species, this category of species,
while the other grouping is a mixing of those two.
But the benefit really of the pairs plot is if
our goal is to help separate the three species from each other,
we want to find one picture that shows that to us in the easiest way.
The pairs plot gives us the conditional distribution along the main diagonal,
and we never see all three KDEs, all three densities, fully separate.
You always see two of the colors overlapped.
That means we need to examine more dimensions at a time,
such as a scatter plot, to see if we can separate all three.
For example, we were looking at flipper_length and bill_depth,
it's easy to separate the green from the orange and blue, but
we can't easily separate the orange and blue in this view.
However, the pairs plot shows us all pairs of continuous variables.
And so rather than having to manually try out
all of the combinations for the scatter plots,
we get to see in one picture all of the options we could have tried.
Using bill_depth and bill_length is
one way to help separate the three, or
at least roughly do so.
There's kind of these three regions of color.
bill_length and flipper_length is another option,
where you kind of can draw these regions that separate the three.
So again, the pairs plot is kind of one graph that works pretty
well at letting you examine a lot of information in one picture.
The one drawback is the pairs plot works best
when you have less than ten variables.
You can get away with up to 15 to 20.
But anything more than 20
is information overload,
because 20 variables produces
a pairs plot with a 20 by 20
plot matrix, or 20 squared,
which is 400 plots.
Nobody's going to look at 400 plots, 10 by 10, or 100, is already a lot.
When you have less than ten, it's manageable.
4 by 4, this is 16, I can actually look at all of these.
So as great as a pairs plot seems, the one thing you have to remember
is you can't really use it if you have a huge number of variables.
But that's everything for this video, I hope you liked it.
I hope you found it useful to review some of these important aspects of
visualization, and
how the pairs plot can really help streamline your exploratory data analysis.