Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/9FUxH/reshaping-data-wide-to-long-format-with-melt

English
To help understand what's going on.
Let's use the similar syntax to make a box plot,
sns.catplot, and now,
the syntax will be let's only give the dataset,
and specify the plot,
and set how wide we want the figure to be.
Now, as you can see,
the X axis is the name of the numeric columns,
the Y axis is the value,
but I can't see the boxes for these three.
I really only see the box for one,
and so what's going on is the scale
is completely dominated by a single column or variable.
That's why we could not see all of
the histograms using the default Seaborn function.
Instead, we want Seaborn to
create separate facets for
each column just as Pandas did.
But Seaborn prefers data
in a different format from Pandas.
Pandas likes wide format data
where each column is a variable.
Seaborn, however,
prefers long format data
where we have a column that denotes the variables,
and this is going to sound really strange at first,
the easiest way to understand what's going
on is to let's execute
reshaping from wide to
long format to see what long format does.
The easiest way is to
actually create a long format data set.
We are motivating it right now to allow
us to do certain actions in
Seaborn that we can do in Pandas,
but as you'll see, long format data,
getting comfortable with it actually really opens
you up to a lot of different ways of organizing data.
It's a very important way of structuring your data,
and it actually has a lot in common
with relational databases,
so if you take 2110,
you will actually work with
long format data quite frequently in designing databases.
Let's begin by focusing just on the numeric columns.
Let's separate them out.
We will create a new data frame called
penguins_features and in this data frame,
I will select all four numeric columns
using the select_dtypes method.
select _dtypes lets me select columns by their data type.
select_dtypes number give me all numeric columns.
I'm then forcing the deep copy so that penguins
features is definitely separate
from the original penguins data frame.
To stack or gather all four columns
in the current wide format into long format,
we need to melt the data.
Melting means stacking or stretching.
We're going to take this one column and we will
stack it on top of another column.
We're going to convert from having a separate column for
each variable to having fewer columns,
but where the variables are stacked on top of each other.
We will make the data frame very tall.
I'm using the term melt specifically,
because reshaping from wide to
long is accomplished with the melt method.
penguins_features.melt,
we no longer have four columns with 344 rows,
instead, we have just two columns and
look very closely at the names of these two columns,
one is named variable,
the other is named value.
Inside the variable column,
we have the original variable names.
The value column is storing
the value associated with those variables.
Let's confirm that we did not lose any data because if we
melt and then apply value counts to variable,
notice each value of
variable is one of the original column names,
and there are 344 rows for each one.
The reason why there are 344 rows
is because in penguins_features,
there are 344 rows.
When we melt, we
get 1,376 because 344 times four is 1,376.
We are literally stacking
the 344 rows on top of each other.