Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/cdD4V/review-plot-points-and-confidence-intervals-part-1

English
Hello, everyone. In this video,
we're going to review
a few important items discussed at the end of last week,
namely, all coming from the point plot.
As you can see I already have Jupyter opened up.
I'm in the file manager.
I have navigated to
the directory for the project for this class,
and I have created a directory for this week, Week 7.
I'm going to click on it.
Now I will create a new Jupyter Notebook.
If you need to launch Jupyter,
please pause the recording and do so.
When you come back, let's now come in here
and rename the Notebook
to Week 07 review point plots.
Now I'm going to put in the header information,
CMPINF 2100, Week 07, Review Point Plots.
This is to reinforce that one,
point plots are very important,
and the concepts associated with them are some of
the major items I hope you take away from this semester.
Let's now import modules.
We will use the same four modules as last week.
We will use numpy as np,
pandas as pd,
matplotlib.pyplot as plt and seaborn as sns.
I will often refer to these as the big four and
we will use continuously for
the remainder of the semester.
Let's read in some data.
We will continue to work with the GAP Minder dataset.
So a dataset that we worked with last week.
Here I have one of the rendered
HTML reports from our Jupyter Notebooks
that we created last week.
I pulled this up because it has
the URL that we need
to use to download the GAP Minder dataset.
So I'm just copying
this entire line of code. I'm copying it.
Now coming back here, pasting it in.
Hey, so you could either get this link from Canvas or you
can pull up one of the HTML reports we created last week.
Now let's read in that data set from GitHub, pd.
read_csv (gap_url, sep).
Because remember, this is a tab separated file,
so we need to change the sep argument to slash
t. We now have the data set from last week.
Now, I'm not going to go through and
get the essential or basic information in this data,
the column names, their data types,
the number of missing values,
the number of unique values
because we've already done that.
I'm also not going to look at
any box plots or bar charts,
marginal distributions and box plots in this example,
because we've already done that.
Instead, we will focus completely on the point plot.
The point plot shows or visualizes
the conditional mean of
a continuous variable given a categorical variable.
That means it is a
categorical to continuous relationship plot.
In Seaborn it is part of
the sns catplot figure level function family
because it is focused on categorical groupings.
Usually, the categorical variable
is associated with the x-axis,
and the continuous variable is
associated with the y-axis.
Now, last time we examined
the conditional mean of
the life expectancy variable given the year.
The year is an integer continuous number,
but we can effectively treat it as
a categorical variable in this example.
So sns catplot,
all plots, all figures start with a dataset.
The x variable is the categorical,
the y variable is the continuous variable.
Then what kind of plot,
we want it to be a point plot.
I'm just going to make it wider.
By default, we get a line that connects the points.
I typically like to remove
the line by setting join to false.
Now, the dot shows us the average value of
the continuous variable for
a given category of the categorical variable,
so we can examine how the average changes
as the categorical changes.
There are other categorical variables,
though we could have grouped by the continent variable.
So sns.catplot data equals gap_df,
x equals continent, y equals life expectancy.
So I'm using the same continuous variable.
It's still the same plot.
I'll use the same aspect ratio and join equals false.