Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/m5luR/scatter-plot-creation

English
Now, obviously, we could flip
what variable is on
the x versus the variable that's on the y.
Instead, we could do sns.relplot,
data = penguins,
x = bill_depth_mm, y = flipper_length_mm.
This chart is equally valid.
We have just flipped what's on the x and the y.
Which variable you should use on x,
well, it's really up to you.
There are certain situations where it is
much more appropriate to have
one variable on the x-axis,
usually an input variable,
and on the y-axis you would show an output variable.
But we have not discussed modeling just yet.
For now, when you explore the data,
if you don't know the context,
it's really up to you for which variable goes on
x versus which variable goes on y.
Let's print out the penguins info again.
There are multiple floats.
There are multiple continuous variables.
We have only looked at two of them.
Let's now look at two more.
Let's look at body mass and bill length.
Again, it's up to us what goes on the x-axis.
Sns.relplot, data = penguins,
x equals, let's go, body_mass_g,
y = bill_length_mm, plt.show.
This chart looks different from the one we looked at
previously because we are
working with two different variables.
We have one set of
relationships with bill depth and flipper length,
and we have a different set of
relationship between body mass and bill length.
Now, each of these figures that I made,
I created with the figure-level function.
The underlying axis-level function called by the
figure-level sns.relplot is the sns.scatterplot function.
Let's just make one more,
but this time using the axis-level function,
and so we need to initialize the figure and axis objects.
Plt.subplots, well,
here, actually, let's just go with
the default figure size.
Sns.scatterplot, you can see once I do sca,
tab completes the scatter plot.
Even though it's axis,
it still starts with data,
and then we have to set the x and the y variables,
and then ax=ax, plt.show.
I haven't filled in x and y just yet.
Let's go ahead and pick two more.
Let's do flipper length,
and how about bill length?
Flipper_length_mm, y = bill_length_mm.
Whether you want to make the chart with
the axis level or the figure level,
well, it's up to you.
I prefer the figure-level function.
Now, why I prefer the figure-level function,
you'll see here in a few minutes.
But as a quick reminder, or in summary,
the scatter plot shows
the relationship between two continuous variables.
However, scatter plots can
show more than just two variables.
Just because we typically use
them for two doesn't mean they're limited to two.
A very common practice
is to include a categorical variable via color.
We can associate a categorical variable
with the hue argument.
Let's return to our first plot.
In our first plot,
we did sns.relplot,
data = penguins,
x = flipper_length_mm,
y = bill_depth_mm, plt.show.
Now, the scatter plot is,
again, showing the relationship.
But how would you describe this relationship?
You might say, well, hey,
look, if I focus down here,
it looks like the y-axis increases
as the x-axis increases.
But if I would focus on this other grouping,
I would also say that the y-axis bill depth
increases as the x-axis flipper length increases.
But this chart doesn't actually show that.
This chart tells us,
hey, we have some values.
We have some observations of these two variables.
Does the y-axis increase as the x-axis increases?
Let's start on the left-hand side.
As we move from the left to
the right or as the flipper length is increasing,
the bill depth is decreasing.
Do you see that? I start here,
I start on the left-hand side,
and I see higher values of bill depth,
but as I move to the right,
I actually see lower values of bill depth.