Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/Jzl78/summary-of-using-seaborn-plot-points-and-comparing-it-to-alternatives

English
Let's look at the resulting figure.
Do you see these two red horizontal lines?
That's what we displayed with this ax.h lines method.
But what's really important is
look where the horizontal lines are located.
Now, I just rounded these.
They are not actually the exact values.
I just typed these in manually but as you can see,
the lower bound is at the
lower bound of the vertical error bar,
and the upper bound is at
the upper bound of the vertical error bar.
It is at the bounds just when year is 1952.
If we would have instead have focused on 2007,
the lower and upper bounds on
that 95% confidence interval
should be something near 65 and 70.
Well, let's print
out our summarized data frame and then look at 2007,
the lower bound is basically 65,
the upper bound is 69,
pretty close to 70.
Why did I want to review this?
In summary the point plot
performs the following actions for us.
It calculates the conditional mean.
The mean is another word for the average for
the y-axis variable given each x-axis category.
It also calculates the standard error on
the mean for each x-axis category or
the standard error on the mean for
the y-axis variable given each x-axis category.
It then calculates the lower
bound on the desired confidence interval.
It calculates the upper bound
on the desired confidence interval,
plots the conditional mean as a point, which is a dot,
and it plots the confidence interval as an error bar
between the lower and upper bounds.
In other words, the point plot saves
a lot of time when visually exploring data.
You do not have to first do the grouping,
the summarizing the aggregation just
to show the confidence interval on the average.
You can let point plot do all of that for you.
To wrap this up, let's see what we would need to do
in order to make the plot
manually using Panda's plotting methods.
We have already created GAP year summary.
We need to do some data manipulation.
To use Panda's methods,
we need to set the index to
be the categorical variable we're interested in,
which in our case is a year.
We also need to isolate
or select a small number of columns.
I want to show the lower
bound on the confidence interval,
I want to show the conditional mean,
and I want to show the upper bound on
the confidence interval while still
having the index be one of the columns.
Now, as you can see,
I have the confidence interval bounds and
the average with the index attribute now is the year.
Let's make the plot GAP year summary, LOC,
all rows for year, life expectancy,
CI lower, life expectancy average, life expectancy,
CI upper set index,
year go to a new line plot ax = ax.
I'm using the Panda's method.
By default, Pandas will make a line chart
for each column in
the data frame with respect to the index.
Again, I only selected the three columns.
I'm interested in the average and then
the bounds on the confidence interval because by default,
the plot method will show
a curve for each column with respect to the index.
The point is showing the average, the conditional mean,
and the lower and upper bound
as an error bar rather than these three lines.
I prefer the points because now we get
the exact values where the categories,
where the average is calculated,
rather than just some line.
Again, in summary, the point plot
is really going to save
you a massive amount of time
when you are visually exploring data.
You don't have to keep doing all of
the grouping, the aggregating,
the data manipulation, just
to make this one plot because after all,
you may have a large number of categorical variables and
many continuous variables that will have to be
summarized for the groups
of the categories of the categoricals.
You want to be able to make your plots quickly and
easily so you can go through the whole data
set rather than having to
continuously redefine new data frames,
do some data manipulation,
just to plot them.
I hope you liked this video.
I hope it helped reinforce what the point plot is doing,
I hope it demonstrated why it's useful because after all,
how do we know if the averages are different if
the 95% confidence intervals do not overlap?
This the point plot,
the reason why it's so
useful is because the point plot lets you answer.
Is there a difference on average?
Essentially, in statistics terms,
the point plot is the visual t-test.
I very rarely execute t-tests.
I basically make these kinds of charts,
and I examine, is there
an overlap between the 95% confidence intervals.
Because if the 95% confidence intervals do not overlap,
then we can be confident that there is
a difference in the average across the categories.
For example, in this case,
yes, we are confident that on average,
the life expectancy in 1952 was
different than the average life expectancy in 2007.
These 95% confidence intervals do not overlap.
But now, focus on 1977 and 1982.
Are the averages different between these two years?
Well, we have overlap in the 95% confidence intervals.
So no, we cannot
distinguish the averages between these two years.
We think that within the margin of error,
the averages are basically the same.