Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/UxCPO/trend-plots-and-correlation-coefficients

English
Hello, everyone. As you can see,
I already have Jupyter opened.
I'm in the directory for this week for the course.
I'm going to now start a new Jupyter Notebook.
If you don't have Jupyter launched,
please pause the recording and do so now.
Then when you're back, launch a new Python 3 kernel.
Let's change the name of
this notebook to week_07_corrplots.
Now add in our header information,
CMPINF 2100 Week 07,
Visualizing continuous to
continuous relationships via correlation plots.
This video is another extension of the scatter plot.
But instead of looking at the raw data,
we will focus on a single summary statistic that tries to
quantify the linear relationship
between the two continuous variables.
Let's go ahead and import our modules.
Again, you need the big four.
NumPy is np,
Pandas is pd,
matplotlib.pyplot is plt,
and seaborn as sns.
Let's now read in the data.
We will continue to work with the penguins dataset,
as we've worked with in the last few videos.
Sns.load_dataset penguins.
Let's use.info to again confirm we have the same dataset.
Now, as a very short review,
we learned how to make the scatter plot.
Sns.relplot data = penguins.
Let's use the flipper length and
the bill depth variables as we've
primarily focused on the last two videos,
flipper length and bill depth.
Last video, we also learned about the trend plot,
sns.lnplot data = penguins,
x = flipper_length_mm, y = bill_depth_mm.
We now have a trend line to help our eyes.
It's "quantifying the relationship better".
Though there are no numbers displayed,
it's just helping our eyes to
examine the general linear relationship.
But now, if you want
a number that describes the relationship,
one such number is the correlation coefficient.
The correlation coefficient is between -1 and +1.
A value of -1 means there is
a perfect anti or negative linear relationship
between the two variables.
A value of +1 means there is
a perfect positive and linear relationship
between the two variables.
Based on our trend plot,
which has a line with a negative slope,
increasing the x-axis variable is
associated with a decrease in the y-axis variable.
Since this slope is negative,
we should anticipate that
the correlation coefficient is also
a negative number because
the correlation coefficient is really
representing what the linear relationship is.
If you have a zero correlation coefficient,
we would have a flat horizontal line
between the two variables.
The correlation matrix can be
calculated via the Pandas corr method.
Let's go ahead and do this for
just these two specific variables.
We're going to select two columns for right now.
I want all rows.
But again, just the two flipper length and bill depth.
Here are those two.
Now I want to apply the corr method.
C-O-R-R.
The result is a DataFrame, where the columns,
and now the index attribute or the rows,
are the names of the variables in the dataset,
which right now I've selected two,
and so that's why we see two columns and two rows.
But the entries, the cells in this DataFrame,
do you see these ones?
These are along the main diagonal, meaning,
flipper length and flipper length,
and then bill depth and bill depth.
The one means the a variable
is perfectly correlated with itself, which makes sense.
It just says, how does the variable move with itself?
Well, it's the same thing.
It's perfectly related to itself.
What really matters in
a correlation matrix is what's off the diagonal.
We have the linear relationship,
the correlation coefficient between
bill depth and flipper length.
Do you see that negative sign?
There's a negative linear relationship between them.
A correlation matrix is symmetric.
The value above the
diagonal equals the value below the diagonal.
Here, below the diagonal it's saying,
what's the relationship between linear relationship,
the correlation between flipper length and bill depth?
What's this negative number?
That is the same correlation
between bill depth and flipper length.
It doesn't matter which order,
just like how it doesn't matter
what variable per se we put on the x versus the y-axis.
The interpretation would be the same.