Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/KUudU/trend-plots-introduction

English
Hello, everyone. As you can see,
I already have a Jupyter session
opened in this week's directory.
If you don't have Jupyter opened,
please pause the recording and do so.
Once you've done that, let's launch
a new Jupyter Notebook and let's change
the title to week_07_trend_plots.
This recording is building off of the previous one.
We will continue to examine
continuous to continuous relationships,
but we will do so with a separate kind of
plot that will ultimately add even more detail.
We will visualize continuous to
continuous relationships via trend plots.
The trend plot is an extension that adds
further 'quantitative' information about
the relationship between two continuous variables,
or the trend plot is an extension of
the scatter plot that
adds further 'quantitative' information.
Let's go ahead and import the modules that we need,
and you need the big four: NumPy as np,
Pandas is pd,
matplotlib.pyplot as plt,
and lastly, you need Seaborn as sns.
Let's go ahead and read in our data.
We will continue to work with the Penguins dataset.
Let's create an object, penguins,
which is the result of calling sns.load_dataset,
with penguins as a string.
Again, penguins as a string is
the argument to the sns.load_dataset function.
We now have the same set of
seven columns that we worked with in the previous video.
As a quick review,
the scatter plot is the fundamental graphic to
show the relationship between two continuous variables.
Let's focus on the two
we mainly looked at in the previous recording,
of flipper_length and bill_depth.
We will use the figure level functions,
sns.relpot(data=penguins).
All figures graphics start with the data,
x='flipper_length_mm', y='bill_depth_mm',
plt.show().
We looked at this graphic previously,
and in that video,
I said to you that
the relationship between
bill depth and flipper length was
that bill depth decreased as flipper length increased.
You might have said to yourself,
"Hey, I don't see that.
It seems like there's two clusters or two groupings of
data where bill depth
increases as flipper length increases."
We saw how to find that.
We saw that by
grouping or conditioning on a categorical variable,
our interpretation of the scatter plot changed,
our view of the relationship changed.
So if I used sns.relpot(data=penguins
, x='flipper_length_mm',
y='bill_depth_mm', hue='species'),
we saw that yes,
we could find two main groups,
the gen 2 versus the other two.
But were you a little skeptical when I said
the relationship decreased between them?
Let's use trend plots to make that more distinct.
We can add trend lines to visualize
the linear relationship between
the two continuous variables.
Trend lines correspond to
the best fit line between the two variables.
Now, later on,
we will learn how this line is created.
But for now, let's visualize it and let the line
or trend help us interpret the relationship.
The trend is not created with the sns.relplot() function.
Instead, the trend is
created with the figure level function,
sns.lmplot(), and you
will learn what lm stands for later.
But for right now, let's just use the lmplot function.
So this is something that is a little odd or confusing.
We are switching figure level functions,
even though we are still focused on relationships.
But to add in a trend line,
our goal is to work with some kind of model,
and again, you'll learn what lm stands for later.