Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/g6Oox/unpacking-grouped-correlation-plots-analyzing-continuous-variables-across

English
What happened? Initialize the figure,
initialize the axis object.
One row, as many columns
as unique categories as of the groups.
For IX in range of the length of the groups.
I have this sequence.
I need its length,
make use the range generator object to give the index.
I'm using Corp group to identify all rows based on
the index location with
the index location key coming
from this slice of the groups.
Then we have how you set up
the correlation plot, -1 to +1,
centered at zero, corr 1, annotate is true,
assign the axis, change the title of the axis.
Why do you only see red here?
You don't see any blue even though
we previously saw blue?
Well, let's go back to our grouped trend plot.
All three curves are positive when you group by species.
That's exactly what we see up here.
Again, grouping by a categorical can
change our opinion about
the relationship between the team continuous.
Lastly, to conclude,
we can create group correlation plots
between more than just two continuous variables.
Corr per group all penguins.group by
species corr numeric only equal to true.
Now, corr per group all,
all four numeric columns are included.
You have a four by four dataframe because you have
a repeated three times because we have
four continuous variables for each of the three species.
Just to save a little time,
let's copy and paste all this code.
Something I typically don't like to do,
but I want to just speed this up.
Also to highlight how general this approach is.
Initialize everything. That's the same.
Define the four loop. That's the same.
I want to iterate over the groups. That's the same.
But I'm not slicing Corp group now.
I'm slicing Corp group all.
I need the same setup for my corr plot.
The axis title is still the same.
Again, we now have
correlation plots grouped by each individual species.
You only see red here even though when we looked at
the correlation plot for or ignoring any grouping.
We had negative relationships
between some of the variables.
That meant the fact
that we had different species was actually
masking or hiding
the real relationship between these variables.
You had to control or account for
each species to really know how
the individual continuous variables
are related to each other.
You have now seen three different ways
of showing relationships.
Scatter plots, trend plots,
and now correlation plots.
Scatter plots are basic.
Trend plots give you a line to
help see the relationship, the linear relationship.
Correlation plots summarize that linear relationship
with a number that can be negative or positive.
Correlation plots scale to
a large number of variables quite easily.
Whereas in scatter plots and trend plots,
it's really studying just two variables,
two continuous, but we can use color and facets to
examine the impact or
influence of multiple categorical variables.
Correlation plots can be grouped
and that grouping is shown via facets.
I hope you like this video,
please let me know if you have any questions. Good luck.