Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/GuYFY/using-boxplots-for-data-visualization-in-with-seaborn-part-1

English
Hello everyone, in this video we will continue reviewing another
important visualization, the boxplot.
As you can see, I have Jupyter opened up.
I'm in the directory for this week for the class.
If you do not have Jupyter open, please pause the recording and launch it.
And then once you're back, start a new Jupyter notebook.
Let's go ahead and change the name of this Jupyter
notebook to week 07 review boxplots and
then put in the header information CMPINF 2100 week 07 review boxplots.
Although we will review, we will also
discuss the limitations of boxplots.
So that's really what this is about.
Let's go ahead and import the modules.
We will import the big four, numpy is np,
pandas is pd, matplotlib.pyp is plt,
and seaborne as sns.
As mentioned last time,
these are the four we will use continuously throughout the semester.
Okay, we will begin by reading in data, and
as we have done in the last video,
we will continue to use the gap minder data set.
This is one of the html reports from last week.
Week 06 again, you can get the url for
the gap minder data set on Canvas, or
you can get the url from the html report from last week.
That's what I'm doing this time, so
I'm just copying that entire cell, pasting it in,
and now reading in using the pd read csv
function gap url separator slash t because
we're reading in a tab separated file and
here again using dot info to confirm we
have read in the data correctly.
Okay, let's quickly revisit let's quickly visit the box plot again.
The box plot is an excellent graphical tool for
exploring conditional distributions or
relationships between categorical and continuous variables.
That's when you use a boxplot in seaborn.
It is part of the sns chat plot figure level family of functions
because the objective is to work with a categorical variable.
The categorical variable is usually associated with the x axis and
the continuous variable is usually associated with the y axis.
For that reason, it's formatted similarly to the point plot,
but instead of showing the average,
the box plot summarizes the conditional
distribution with several summary statistics.
Let's go ahead and create the box plot to show the conditional distribution for
life expectancy with respect to year.
Again, year is an integer, but
we will treat it as a categorical sns chat plot data all charts,
all figures, all graphics start with data.
So data equals gap, df x equals year,
y equals life expectancy kind equals box.
And then let's just set the aspect ratio to be two to make the figure wider.
Okay, the x axis is the year.
The y axis is the continuous variable.
But we are not looking at the average per year.
We are instead seeing multiple summary statistics.
I want you to focus on 1952.
The horizontal line is the median, 50% of the observations are less than the median,
50% of the observations are greater than the median.
The lower end of the box is the 25th percentile or
0.25 quantile, 25% of the data are less than the box,
meaning 75% of the data are greater than this line.
The top of the box is the 75th percentile or 0.75 quantile,
75% of the day of the observations are less than this point,
25% of the observations are greater than this point.
What that means is the box plot is showing multiple ways
of representing 50% of the data, 50% are less
than the median, 50% are greater than the median,
50% are inside the box, and 50% are outside the box.
So the box, its height, is representing the variability or
the variation or dispersion of the variable.
Now, the error bars are called the whiskers,
and the whiskers extend from the minimum to the maximum.
The minimum to the maximum is called the range.
So you can see the entire range of the observations where 50%
of the observations are centrally located, which is inside the box.
You can see where the median is.
So the midpoint, again, 50% are less than the median, 50% or
greater than the median.
That's why the box plot is really communicating a lot of really useful
summary or descriptive statistics.
But the box plot again is really about a categorical to continuous relationship.