Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/jsQxY/using-boxplots-for-data-visualization-in-with-seaborn-part-2

English
We examined the box for one category.
Let's now go to the far right hand side.
We get the box for a different category.
You can see the median is at
a different value on
the right hand side compared to the left hand side.
And in fact, the median of life expectancy in
2007 is greater than the 75th percentile in 1952.
Although we see that the medians have
different values, examine the variability.
Look at the height of
the box because the height of the box,
again, is known as the interquartile range.
The difference between the 75th and 25th percentiles.
The heights of the boxes,
although they are different,
they're roughly the same.
Meaning the variability per
year per category is relatively consistent,
even if the central value,
the median is changing year over year,
or across the categories.
We can, of course, examine
a different categorical variable.
Let's look at the relationship
between continent and life expectancy.
The plot is created the same way.
It starts with the data.
The categorical variable is the x axis now continent,
and the continuous variable,
still life expectancy is the y axis.
Again, kind equals box aspect
equals two to make the figure wider.
In this case, where we
have a true categorical variable on the x axis.
Again, with the box plot,
we want to first look at how the median changes.
The location of the median,
two of the categories have similar medians,
and then you have three others that have lower medians.
But the other aspect shown by this graph
is how the variability
is different across the categories.
Here are two categories,
the orange and the purple that have
shorter interquartile ranges or shorter boxes.
Meaning the variability, the variation in
these two categories is
lower than the variation in the other categories.
Again, the whiskers extend
the min and max to see the overall range.
But we see some other things
shown here, these little dots.
I'll return to these dots in a little bit.
But the main take
two points that you can clearly see from this box.
Medians are different and the variability,
the box, the interquartile range,
the location of 50%,
the central 50% of the observations per category are
different across the groups.
When you have separation of boxes across categories,
this is a pretty good indicator that you have
different distributions of
the continuous variable across the categories.
Again, in summary box plots allow
us to answer several important questions.
Does the median appear to change across categories?
Does the variation appear
to change across the categories?
Does the height of the box
and which are all of more generally asking,
are the summary statistics
different across the categories?