Source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/mds-introduction-to-data-centric-computing/lecture/gFcke/violin-plots-with-quartiles

English
This shape here for D
is what we're looking at on the violin.
Likewise, this shape here
for E is what we're looking at on the violin,
but it's just been rotated 90 degrees.
If you would mirror this shape,
that's what you're looking at in the violin.
The purpose of the violin plot
is to allow us to look at if
the actual conditional distributional shape is
changing across the categories.
When we have the D and E categories,
there's this one giant peak on the left hand side,
less than the median,
and I know that it's less
than the median because by default,
a tiny box plot is included in the middle.
This white dot is the median.
Compare that to say the H category or the J category,
where that peak, which is less than
the median is spread out.
The median is increasing
because the distribution is
getting stretched a little bit.
It's less concentrated.
Now, because this plot does have a lot going on,
we can simplify it.
Instead of showing a box plot in the middle.
We can just show some lines.
We can show horizontal lines for the quantiles.
To do that, SNS plot data equals diamonds,
x equals color, y equals price,
kind equals violin aspect equals two.
But we will include one more argument called inner.
Inner means, what are we going
to show on the inside of the violin?
I want to show quartile,
Q-U-A-R-T-I- L-E. Now, instead of the inner box plot,
the middle dashed horizontal line is the median.
The lower dashed line is the 25th percentile,
the upper dashed line, the 75th percentile.
The outer lines are showing you
the box, the interquartile range.
Now, we can see that the highest density,
most concentrated values are
always less than the median across all categories.
But the peak, the most frequent values that interval
is getting stretched out because
the distribution is getting less concentrated.
In summary, always look at a box plot to
study how the summary statistics
change across categories,
but you must also look at
if the distribution shape is symmetric,
and if the distribution shape changes across categories.
If you can do that.
You can use faceted histograms, KDE plots,
or you can use violin plots to accomplish those tasks.
Let's go back. To the GAP minder data set.
Again, cat-plot data equals gap df x equals year,
y equals life expectancy, kind equals box.
Let's make it wide. Aspect is two.
We're studying the summary statistics.
But now we need to look
at the distributional shape via violins.
Year, life expectancy kind
equals violin aspect equals two to make it wider.
We can now see that in the earlier years.
There's this peak,
less than the median,
and then another smaller one above the median.
But as we move forward in time,
the most concentrated interval,
the highest peak is above the median.
The distribution is therefore shifting from
lower life expectancy values to being
concentrated at higher life expectancy values.
The tails are now on
the left side rather than on the right side.
Because the distributional shape can be changing,
even if the height of the box,
that interquartile range is
still roughly the same amount of variation.
The distributional shape itself is in fact different.
I hope you liked this video.
I hope it helped cleared up some confusion
about the box plot while
also addressing its primary limitation
and workflow you should use,
start with a box and then go to the violin.